FORMAT: 	 NAME 	 POKEDEX NUMBER 	 TYPE 	 SPECIES 	 ABILITY 	 HEIGHT 	 WEIGHT 	 EVOLUTION/STAGE
Bulbasaur	001	Generation 1	Grass Poison 		Seed Pokemon		 Overgrow Chlorophyll  			2′4″ (0.71m) 		15.2 lbs (6.9 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue A strange seed was planted on its back at birth. The plant sprouts and grows with this POKéMON. Yellow It can go for days without eating a single morsel. In the bulb on its back, it stores energy. Gold The seed on its back is filled with nutrients. The seed grows steadily larger as its body grows. Silver It carries a seed on its back right from birth. As it grows older, the seed also grows larger. Crystal While it is young, it uses the nutrients that are stored in the seeds on its back in order to grow. Ruby Sapphire Emerald BULBASAUR can be seen napping in bright sunlight. There is a seed on its back. By soaking up the sun’s rays, the seed grows progressively larger. FireRed There is a plant seed on its back right from the day this POKéMON is born. The seed slowly grows larger. LeafGreen A strange seed was planted on its back at birth. The plant sprouts and grows with this POKéMON. Diamond Pearl Platinum For some time after its birth, it grows by gaining nourishment from the seed on its back. HeartGold The seed on its back is filled with nutrients. The seed grows steadily larger as its body grows. SoulSilver It carries a seed on its back right from birth. As it grows older, the seed also grows larger. Black White Black 2 White 2 For some time after its birth, it grows by gaining nourishment from the seed on its back. X A strange seed was planted on its back at birth. The plant sprouts and grows with this Pokémon. Y For some time after its birth, it grows by gaining nourishment from the seed on its back. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Bulbasaur can be seen napping in bright sunlight. There is a seed on its back. By soaking up the sun’s rays, the seed grows progressively larger. 
Ivysaur		002	Generation 1	Grass Poison 		Seed Pokemon		 Overgrow Chlorophyll  			3′3″ (0.99m) 		28.7 lbs (13.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue When the bulb on its back grows large, it appears to lose the ability to stand on its hind legs. Yellow The bulb on its back grows by drawing energy. It gives off an aroma when it is ready to bloom. Gold Exposure to sunlight adds to its strength. Sunlight also makes the bud on its back grow larger. Silver If the bud on its back starts to smell sweet, it is evidence that the large flower will soon bloom. Crystal The bulb on its back grows as it absorbs nutrients. The bulb gives off a pleasant aroma when it blooms. Ruby Sapphire There is a bud on this POKéMON’s back. To support its weight, IVYSAUR’s legs and trunk grow thick and strong. If it starts spending more time lying in the sunlight, it’s a sign that the bud will bloom into a large flower soon. FireRed There is a plant bulb on its back. When it absorbs nutrients, the bulb is said to blossom into a large flower. LeafGreen When the bulb on its back grows large, it appears to lose the ability to stand on its hind legs. Emerald To support its bulb, IVYSAUR’s legs grow sturdy. If it spends more time lying in the sunlight, the bud will soon bloom into a large flower. Diamond Pearl Platinum When the bud on its back starts swelling, a sweet aroma wafts to indicate the flower’s coming bloom. HeartGold Exposure to sunlight adds to its strength. Sunlight also makes the bud on its back grow larger. SoulSilver If the bud on its back starts to smell sweet, it is evidence that the large flower will soon bloom. Black White Black 2 White 2 When the bud on its back starts swelling, a sweet aroma wafts to indicate the flower’s coming bloom. X There is a plant bulb on its back. When it absorbs nutrients, the bulb is said to blossom into a large flower. Y When the bud on its back starts swelling, a sweet aroma wafts to indicate the flower’s coming bloom. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire There is a bud on this Pokémon’s back. To support its weight, Ivysaur’s legs and trunk grow thick and strong. If it starts spending more time lying in the sunlight, it’s a sign that the bud will bloom into a large flower soon. 
Venusaur	003	Generation 1	Grass Poison 		Seed Pokemon		 Overgrow Chlorophyll  			6′7″ (2.01m) 		220.5 lbs (100.0 kg) 		Second stage
Red Blue The plant blooms when it is absorbing solar energy. It stays on the move to seek sunlight. Yellow The flower on its back catches the sun's rays. The sunlight is then absorbed and used for energy. Gold By spreading the broad petals of its flower and catching the sun's rays, it fills its body with power. Silver It is able to convert sunlight into energy. As a result, it is more powerful in the summertime. Crystal As it warms itself and absorbs the sunlight, its flower petals release a pleasant fragrance. Ruby Sapphire There is a large flower on VENUSAUR’s back. The flower is said to take on vivid colors if it gets plenty of nutrition and sunlight. The flower’s aroma soothes the emotions of people. FireRed A bewitching aroma wafts from its flower. The fragrance becalms those engaged in a battle. LeafGreen Its plant blooms when it is absorbing solar energy. It stays on the move to seek sunlight. Emerald VENUSAUR’s flower is said to take on vivid colors if it gets plenty of nutrition and sunlight. The flower’s aroma soothes the emotions of people. Diamond Pearl Platinum After a rainy day, the flower on its back smells stronger. The scent attracts other Pokémon. HeartGold By spreading the broad petals of its flower and catching the sun’s rays, it fills its body with power. SoulSilver It is able to convert sunlight into energy. As a result, it is more powerful in the summertime. Black White Black 2 White 2 After a rainy day, the flower on its back smells stronger. The scent attracts other Pokémon. X By spreading the broad petals of its flower and catching the sun’s rays, it fills its body with power. Y After a rainy day, the flower on its back smells stronger. The scent attracts other Pokémon. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire There is a large flower on Venusaur’s back. The flower is said to take on vivid colors if it gets plenty of nutrition and sunlight. The flower’s aroma soothes the emotions of people. 
Charmander	004	Generation 1	Fire 			Lizard Pokemon		 Blaze Solar Power  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		18.7 lbs (8.5 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Obviously prefers hot places. When it rains, steam is said to spout from the tip of its tail. Yellow The flame at the tip of its tail makes a sound as it burns. You can only hear it in quiet places. Gold The flame on its tail shows the strength of its life force. If it is weak, the flame also burns weakly. Silver The flame on its tail indicates CHARMANDER's life force. If it is healthy, the flame burns brightly. Crystal If it's healthy, the flame on the tip of its tail will burn vigorously, even if it gets a bit wet. Ruby Sapphire The flame that burns at the tip of its tail is an indication of its emotions. The flame wavers when CHARMANDER is enjoying itself. If the POKéMON becomes enraged, the flame burns fiercely. FireRed From the time it is born, a flame burns at the tip of its tail. Its life would end if the flame were to go out. LeafGreen It has a preference for hot things. When it rains, steam is said to spout from the tip of its tail. Emerald The flame that burns at the tip of its tail is an indication of its emotions. The flame wavers when CHARMANDER is happy, and blazes when it is enraged. Diamond Pearl Platinum The fire on the tip of its tail is a measure of its life. If healthy, its tail burns intensely. HeartGold The flame on its tail shows the strength of its life force. If it is weak, the flame also burns weakly. SoulSilver The flame on its tail indicates CHARMANDER’s life force. If it is healthy, the flame burns brightly. Black White Black 2 White 2 The fire on the tip of its tail is a measure of its life. If healthy, its tail burns intensely. X The flame on its tail indicates Charmander’s life force. If it is healthy, the flame burns brightly. Y From the time it is born, a flame burns at the tip of its tail. Its life would end if the flame were to go out. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire The flame that burns at the tip of its tail is an indication of its emotions. The flame wavers when Charmander is enjoying itself. If the Pokémon becomes enraged, the flame burns fiercely. 
Charmeleon	005	Generation 1	Fire 			Flame Pokemon		 Blaze Solar Power  			3′7″ (1.09m) 		41.9 lbs (19.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue When it swings its burning tail, it elevates the temperature to unbearably high levels. Yellow Tough fights could excite this POKéMON. When excited, it may blow out bluish-white flames. Gold It is very hotheaded by nature, so it constantly seeks opponents. It calms down only when it wins. Silver It has a barbaric nature. In battle, it whips its fiery tail around and slashes away with sharp claws. Crystal If it becomes agitated during battle, it spouts intense flames, incinerating its surroundings. Ruby Sapphire CHARMELEON mercilessly destroys its foes using its sharp claws. If it encounters a strong foe, it turns aggressive. In this excited state, the flame at the tip of its tail flares with a bluish white color. FireRed It lashes about with its tail to knock down its foe. It then tears up the fallen opponent with sharp claws. LeafGreen When it swings its burning tail, it elevates the air temperature to unbearably high levels. Emerald Without pity, its sharp claws destroy foes. If it encounters a strong enemy, it becomes agitated, and the flame on its tail flares with a bluish white color. Diamond Pearl Platinum In the rocky mountains where CHARMELEON live, their fiery tails shine at night like stars. HeartGold It is very hotheaded by nature, so it constantly seeks opponents. It calms down only when it wins. SoulSilver It has a barbaric nature. In battle, it whips its fiery tail around and slashes away with sharp claws. Black White Black 2 White 2 In the rocky mountains where Charmeleon live, their fiery tails shine at night like stars. X It lashes about with its tail to knock down its foe. It then tears up the fallen opponent with sharp claws. Y When it swings its burning tail, it elevates the air temperature to unbearably high levels. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Charmeleon mercilessly destroys its foes using its sharp claws. If it encounters a strong foe, it turns aggressive. In this excited state, the flame at the tip of its tail flares with a bluish white color. 
Charizard	006	Generation 1	Fire Flying 		Flame Pokemon		 Blaze Solar Power  			5′7″ (1.70m) 		199.5 lbs (90.5 kg) 		Second stage
Red Blue Spits fire that is hot enough to melt boulders. Known to cause forest fires unintentionally. Yellow When expelling a blast of super hot fire, the red flame at the tip of its tail burns more intensely. Gold If CHARIZARD becomes furious, the flame at the tip of its tail flares up in a whitish-blue color. Silver Breathing intense, hot flames, it can melt almost anything. Its breath inflicts terrible pain on enemies. Crystal It uses its wings to fly high. The temperature of its fire increases as it gains experience in battle. Ruby Sapphire CHARIZARD flies around the sky in search of powerful opponents. It breathes fire of such great heat that it melts anything. However, it never turns its fiery breath on any opponent weaker than itself. FireRed Its wings can carry this POKéMON close to an altitude of 4,600 feet. It blows out fire at very high temperatures. LeafGreen It spits fire that is hot enough to melt boulders. It may cause forest fires by blowing flames. Emerald A CHARIZARD flies about in search of strong opponents. It breathes intense flames that can melt any material. However, it will never torch a weaker foe. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is said that CHARIZARD’s fire burns hotter if it has experienced harsh battles. HeartGold If CHARIZARD becomes furious, the flame at the tip of its tail flares up in a light blue shade. SoulSilver Breathing intense, hot flames, it can melt almost anything. Its breath inflicts terrible pain on enemies. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is said that Charizard’s fire burns hotter if it has experienced harsh battles. X When expelling a blast of superhot fire, the red flame at the tip of its tail burns more intensely. Y Its wings can carry this Pokémon close to an altitude of 4,600 feet. It blows out fire at very high temperatures. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Charizard flies around the sky in search of powerful opponents. It breathes fire of such great heat that it melts anything. However, it never turns its fiery breath on any opponent weaker than itself. 
Squirtle	007	Generation 1	Water 			Tiny Turtle Pokemon	 Torrent Rain Dish  			1′8″ (0.51m) 		19.8 lbs (9.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue After birth, its back swells and hardens into a shell. Powerfully sprays foam from its mouth. Yellow Shoots water at prey while in the water. Withdraws into its shell when in danger. Gold The shell is soft when it is born. It soon becomes so resilient, prodding fingers will bounce off it. Silver The shell, which hardens soon after it is born, is resilient. If you poke it, it will bounce back out. Crystal When it feels threatened, it draws its legs inside its shell and sprays water from its mouth. Ruby Sapphire SQUIRTLE’s shell is not merely used for protection. The shell’s rounded shape and the grooves on its surface help minimize resistance in water, enabling this POKéMON to swim at high speeds. FireRed When it retracts its long neck into its shell, it squirts out water with vigorous force. LeafGreen After birth, its back swells and hardens into a shell. It powerfully sprays foam from its mouth. Emerald Its shell is not just for protection. Its rounded shape and the grooves on its surface minimize resistance in water, enabling SQUIRTLE to swim at high speeds. Diamond Pearl Platinum It shelters itself in its shell, then strikes back with spouts of water at every opportunity. HeartGold The shell is soft when it is born. It soon becomes so resilient, prodding fingers will bounce off it. SoulSilver The shell, which hardens soon after it is born, is resilient. If you poke it, it will bounce back out. Black White It shelters itself in its shell, then strikes back with spouts of water at every opportunity. Black 2 White 2 It shelters itself in its shell then strikes back with spouts of water at every opportunity. X It shelters itself in its shell, then strikes back with spouts of water at every opportunity. Y Shoots water at prey while in the water. Withdraws into its shell when in danger. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Squirtle’s shell is not merely used for protection. The shell’s rounded shape and the grooves on its surface help minimize resistance in water, enabling this Pokémon to swim at high speeds. 
Wartortle	008	Generation 1	Water 			Turtle Pokemon		 Torrent Rain Dish  			3′3″ (0.99m) 		49.6 lbs (22.5 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Often hides in water to stalk unwary prey. For swimming fast, it moves its ears to maintain balance. Yellow When tapped, this POKéMON will pull in its head, but its tail will still stick out a little bit. Gold It is recognized as a symbol of longevity. If its shell has algae on it, that WARTORTLE is very old. Silver It cleverly controls its furry ears and tail to maintain its balance while swimming. Crystal Its long, furry tail is a symbol of longevity, making it quite popular among older people. Ruby Sapphire Its tail is large and covered with a rich, thick fur. The tail becomes increasingly deeper in color as WARTORTLE ages. The scratches on its shell are evidence of this POKéMON’s toughness as a battler. FireRed This POKéMON is very popular as a pet. Its fur-covered tail is a symbol of its longevity. LeafGreen It often hides in water to stalk unwary prey. For fast swimming, it moves its ears to maintain balance. Emerald Its large tail is covered with rich, thick fur that deepens in color with age. The scratches on its shell are evidence of this POKéMON’s toughness in battle. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is said to live 10,000 years. Its furry tail is popular as a symbol of longevity. HeartGold It is a well-established symbol of longevity. If its shell has algae on it, that WARTORTLE is very old. SoulSilver It cleverly controls its furry ears and tail to maintain its balance while swimming. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is said to live 10,000 years. Its furry tail is popular as a symbol of longevity. X When tapped, this Pokémon will pull in its head, but its tail will still stick out a little bit. Y It is said to live 10,000 years. Its furry tail is popular as a symbol of longevity. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Its tail is large and covered with a rich, thick fur. The tail becomes increasingly deeper in color as Wartortle ages. The scratches on its shell are evidence of this Pokémon’s toughness as a battler. 
Blastoise	009	Generation 1	Water 			Shellfish Pokemon	 Torrent Rain Dish  			5′3″ (1.60m) 		188.5 lbs (85.5 kg) 		Second stage
Red Blue A brutal POKéMON with pressurized water jets on its shell. They are used for high speed tackles. Yellow Once it takes aim at its enemy, it blasts out water with even more force than a fire hose. Gold It deliberately makes itself heavy so it can withstand the recoil of the water jets it fires. Silver The rocket cannons on its shell fire jets of water capable of punching holes through thick steel. Crystal It firmly plants its feet on the ground before shooting water from the jets on its back. Ruby Sapphire BLASTOISE has water spouts that protrude from its shell. The water spouts are very accurate. They can shoot bullets of water with enough accuracy to strike empty cans from a distance of over 160 feet. FireRed It crushes its foe under its heavy body to cause fainting. In a pinch, it will withdraw inside its shell. LeafGreen The pressurized water jets on this brutal POKéMON’s shell are used for high-speed tackles. Emerald The waterspouts that protrude from its shell are highly accurate. Their bullets of water can precisely nail tin cans from a distance of over 160 feet. Diamond Pearl Platinum The jets of water it spouts from the rocket cannons on its shell can punch through thick steel. HeartGold It deliberately makes itself heavy so it can withstand the recoil of the water jets it fires. SoulSilver The rocket cannons on its shell fire jets of water capable of punching holes through thick steel. Black White Black 2 White 2 The jets of water it spouts from the rocket cannons on its shell can punch through thick steel. X It crushes its foe under its heavy body to cause fainting. In a pinch, it will withdraw inside its shell. Y The pressurized water jets on this brutal Pokémon’s shell are used for high-speed tackles. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Blastoise has water spouts that protrude from its shell. The water spouts are very accurate. They can shoot bullets of water with enough accuracy to strike empty cans from a distance of over 160 feet. 
Caterpie	010	Generation 1	Bug 			Worm Pokemon		 Shield Dust Run Away  			1′0″ (0.30m) 		6.4 lbs (2.9 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Its short feet are tipped with suction pads that enable it to tirelessly climb slopes and walls. Yellow If you touch the feeler on top of its head, it will release a horrible stink to protect itself. Gold For protection, it releases a horrible stench from the antenna on its head to drive away enemies. Silver Its feet have suction cups designed to stick to any surface. It tenaciously climbs trees to forage. Crystal It crawls into foliage where it camouflages itself among leaves that are the same color as its body. Ruby Sapphire CATERPIE has a voracious appetite. It can devour leaves bigger than its body right before your eyes. From its antenna, this POKéMON releases a terrifically strong odor. FireRed It is covered with a green skin. When it grows, it sheds the skin, covers itself with silk, and becomes a cocoon. LeafGreen Its short feet are tipped with suction pads that enable it to tirelessly climb slopes and walls. Emerald Its voracious appetite compels it to devour leaves bigger than itself without hesitation. It releases a terribly strong odor from its antennae. Diamond Pearl Platinum It releases a stench from its red antenna to repel enemies. It grows by molting repeatedly. HeartGold For protection, it releases a horrible stench from the antennae on its head to drive away enemies. SoulSilver Its feet have suction cups designed to stick to any surface. It tenaciously climbs trees to forage. Black White Black 2 White 2 It releases a stench from its red antenna to repel enemies. It grows by molting repeatedly. X For protection, it releases a horrible stench from the antennae on its head to drive away enemies. Y Its feet have suction cups designed to stick to any surface. It tenaciously climbs trees to forage. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Caterpie has a voracious appetite. It can devour leaves bigger than its body right before your eyes. From its antenna, this Pokémon releases a terrifically strong odor. Sun When attacked by bird Pokémon, it resists by releasing a terrifically strong odor from its antennae, but it often becomes their prey. Moon It’s easy to catch, and it grows quickly, making it one of the top recommendations for novice Pokémon Trainers. 
Metapod		011	Generation 1	Bug 			Cocoon Pokemon		 Shed Skin 				2′4″ (0.71m) 		21.8 lbs (9.9 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue This POKéMON is vulnerable to attack while its shell is soft, exposing its weak and tender body. Yellow Hardens its shell to protect itself. However, a large impact may cause it to pop out of its shell. Gold Inside the shell, it is soft and weak as it prepares to evolve. It stays motionless in the shell. Silver It prepares for evolution by hardening its shell as much as possible to protect its soft body. Crystal This is its pre-evolved form. At this stage, it can only harden, so it remains motionless to avoid attack. Ruby Sapphire The shell covering this POKéMON’s body is as hard as an iron slab. METAPOD does not move very much. It stays still because it is preparing its soft innards for evolution inside the hard shell. FireRed Even though it is encased in a sturdy shell, the body inside is tender. It can’t withstand a harsh attack. LeafGreen This POKéMON is vulnerable to attack while its shell is soft, exposing its weak and tender body. Emerald Its shell is as hard as an iron slab. A METAPOD does not move very much because it is preparing its soft innards for evolution inside the shell. Diamond Pearl Platinum A steel-hard shell protects its tender body. It quietly endures hardships while awaiting evolution. HeartGold Inside the shell, it is soft and weak as it prepares to evolve. It stays motionless in the shell. SoulSilver It prepares for evolution by hardening its shell as much as possible to protect its soft body. Black White Black 2 White 2 A steel-hard shell protects its tender body. It quietly endures hardships while awaiting evolution. X A steel-hard shell protects its tender body. It quietly endures hardships while awaiting evolution. Y This Pokémon is vulnerable to attack while its shell is soft, exposing its weak and tender body. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire The shell covering this Pokémon’s body is as hard as an iron slab. Metapod does not move very much. It stays still because it is preparing its soft innards for evolution inside the hard shell. Sun Its shell is filled with its soft innards. It doesn’t move much because of the risk it might carelessly spill its innards out. Moon Its shell is hard, but it’s still just a bug shell. It’s been known to break, so intense battles with it should be avoided. 
Butterfree	012	Generation 1	Bug Flying 		Butterfly Pokemon	 Compound Eyes Tinted Lens  		3′7″ (1.09m) 		70.5 lbs (32.0 kg) 		Second stage
Red Blue In battle, it flaps its wings at high speed to release highly toxic dust into the air. Yellow Its wings, covered with poisonous powders, repel water. This allows it to fly in the rain. Gold It collects honey every day. It rubs honey onto the hairs on its legs to carry it back to its nest. Silver Water-repellent powder on its wings enables it to collect honey, even in the heaviest of rains. Crystal It flits from flower to flower, collecting honey. It can even identify distant flowers in bloom. Ruby Sapphire BUTTERFREE has a superior ability to search for delicious honey from flowers. It can even search out, extract, and carry honey from flowers that are blooming over six miles from its nest. FireRed The wings are protected by rain-repellent dust. As a result, this POKéMON can fly about even in rain. LeafGreen In battle, it flaps its wings at great speed to release highly toxic dust into the air. Emerald It has a superior ability to search for delicious honey from flowers. It can seek, extract, and carry honey from flowers blooming over six miles away. Diamond Pearl Platinum It loves the honey of flowers and can locate flower patches that have even tiny amounts of pollen. HeartGold It collects honey every day. It rubs honey onto the hairs on its legs to carry it back to its nest. SoulSilver Water-repellent powder on its wings enables it to collect honey, even in the heaviest of rains. Black White Black 2 White 2 It loves the honey of flowers and can locate flower patches that have even tiny amounts of pollen. X It loves the honey of flowers and can locate flower patches that have even tiny amounts of pollen. Y The wings are protected by rain-repellent dust. As a result, this Pokémon can fly about even in rain. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Butterfree has a superior ability to search for delicious honey from flowers. It can even search out, extract, and carry honey from flowers that are blooming over six miles from its nest. Sun Close examination of its large eyes reveals that each eye is composed of a myriad of tiny eyes. Moon When attacked by other Pokémon, it defends itself by scattering its poisonous scales and fluttering its wings. 
Weedle		013	Generation 1	Bug Poison 		Hairy Bug Pokemon	 Shield Dust Run Away  			1′0″ (0.30m) 		7.1 lbs (3.2 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Often found in forests, eating leaves. It has a sharp venomous stinger on its head. Yellow Beware of the sharp stinger on its head. It hides in grass and bushes where it eats leaves. Gold Its poison stinger is very powerful. Its bright-colored body is intended to warn off its enemies. Silver It attacks using a two-inch poison barb on its head. It can usually be found under the leaves it eats. Crystal The barb on top of its head secretes a strong poison. It uses this toxic barb to protect itself. Ruby Sapphire WEEDLE has an extremely acute sense of smell. It is capable of distinguishing its favorite kinds of leaves from those it dislikes just by sniffing with its big red proboscis (nose). FireRed Often found in forests and grasslands. It has a sharp, toxic barb of around two inches on top of its head. LeafGreen Often found in forests, eating leaves. It has a sharp stinger on its head that injects poison. Emerald A WEEDLE has an extremely acute sense of smell. It distinguishes its favorite kinds of leaves from those it dislikes by sniffing with its big red proboscis (nose). Diamond Pearl Platinum It eats its weight in leaves every day. It fends off attackers with the needle on its head. HeartGold Its poison stinger is very powerful. Its bright-colored body is intended to warn off its enemies. SoulSilver It attacks using a two-inch poison barb on its head. It can usually be found under the leaves it eats. Black White Black 2 White 2 It eats its weight in leaves every day. It fends off attackers with the needle on its head. X Often found in forests and grasslands. It has a sharp, toxic barb of around two inches on top of its head. Y Its poison stinger is very powerful. Its bright-colored body is intended to warn off its enemies. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Weedle has an extremely acute sense of smell. It is capable of distinguishing its favorite kinds of leaves from those it dislikes just by sniffing with its big red proboscis (nose). 
Kakuna		014	Generation 1	Bug Poison 		Cocoon Pokemon		 Shed Skin 				2′0″ (0.61m) 		22 lbs (10.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Almost incapable of moving, this POKéMON can only harden its shell to protect itself from predators. Yellow Able to move only slightly. When endangered, it may stick out its stinger and poison its enemy. Gold Although it is a cocoon, it can move a little. It can extend its poison barb if it is attacked. Silver From this form, it will grow into an adult. As its body becomes softer, the external shell hardens. Crystal Nearly incapable of movement, it leans against stout trees while waiting for its evolution. Ruby Sapphire KAKUNA remains virtually immobile as it clings to a tree. However, on the inside, it is extremely busy as it prepares for its coming evolution. This is evident from how hot the shell becomes to the touch. FireRed This POKéMON is in a temporary stage while making its body. It is almost completely unable to move on its own. LeafGreen Almost incapable of moving, this POKéMON can only harden its shell to protect itself when it is in danger. Emerald It remains virtually immobile while it clings to a tree. However, on the inside, it busily prepares for evolution. This is evident from how hot its shell becomes. Diamond Pearl Platinum While awaiting evolution, it hides from predators under leaves and in nooks of branches. HeartGold Although it is a cocoon, it can move a little. It can extend its poison barb if it is attacked. SoulSilver From this form, it will grow into an adult. As its body becomes softer, the external shell hardens. Black White Black 2 White 2 While awaiting evolution, it hides from predators under leaves and in nooks of branches. X Almost incapable of moving, this Pokémon can only harden its shell to protect itself when it is in danger. Y While awaiting evolution, it hides from predators under leaves and in nooks of branches. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Kakuna remains virtually immobile as it clings to a tree. However, on the inside, it is extremely busy as it prepares for its coming evolution. This is evident from how hot the shell becomes to the touch. 
Beedrill	015	Generation 1	Bug Poison 		Poison Bee Pokemon	 Swarm Sniper  				3′3″ (0.99m) 		65 lbs (29.5 kg) 		Second stage
Red Blue Flies at high speed and attacks using its large venomous stingers on its forelegs and tail. Yellow It has 3 poisonous stingers on its forelegs and its tail. They are used to jab its enemy repeatedly. Gold It can take down any opponent with its powerful poison stingers. It sometimes attacks in swarms. Silver It has three poison barbs. The barb on its tail secretes the most powerful poison. Crystal It uses sharp, poisonous stings to defeat prey, then takes the victim back to its nest for food. Ruby Sapphire BEEDRILL is extremely territorial. No one should ever approach its nest - this is for their own safety. If angered, they will attack in a furious swarm. FireRed May appear in a swarm. Flies at violent speeds, all the while stabbing with the toxic stinger on its rear. LeafGreen It flies at high speed and attacks using the large venomous stingers on its forelegs and tail. Emerald A BEEDRILL is extremely territorial. For safety reasons, no one should ever approach its nest. If angered, they will attack in a swarm. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its best attack involves flying around at high speed, striking with poison needles, then flying off. HeartGold It can take down any opponent with its powerful poison stingers. It sometimes attacks in swarms. SoulSilver It has three poison barbs. The barb on its tail secretes the most powerful poison. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its best attack involves flying around at high speed, striking with poison needles, then flying off. X It has three poisonous stingers on its forelegs and its tail. They are used to jab its enemy repeatedly. Y May appear in a swarm. Flies at violent speeds, all the while stabbing with the toxic stinger on its rear. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Beedrill is extremely territorial. No one should ever approach its nest—this is for their own safety. If angered, they will attack in a furious swarm. 
Pidgey		016	Generation 1	Normal Flying 		Tiny Bird Pokemon	 Keen Eye Tangled Feet Big Pecks  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		4 lbs (1.8 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue A common sight in forests and woods. It flaps its wings at ground level to kick up blinding sand. Yellow Very docile. If attacked, it will often kick up sand to protect itself rather than fight back. Gold It usually hides in tall grass. Because it dislikes fighting, it protects itself by kicking up sand. Silver Common in grassy areas and forests, it is very docile and will chase off enemies by flapping up sand. Crystal It rapidly flaps its wings in the grass, stirring up a dust cloud that drives insect prey out into the open. Ruby Sapphire PIDGEY has an extremely sharp sense of direction. It is capable of unerringly returning home to its nest, however far it may be removed from its familiar surroundings. FireRed Does not like to fight. It hides in tall grass and so on, foraging for food such as small bugs. LeafGreen A common sight in forests and woods. It flaps its wings at ground level to kick up blinding sand. Emerald It has an extremely sharp sense of direction. It can unerringly return home to its nest, however far it may be removed from its familiar surroundings. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is docile and prefers to avoid conflict. If disturbed, however, it can ferociously strike back. HeartGold It usually hides in tall grass. Because it dislikes fighting, it protects itself by kicking up sand. SoulSilver Common in grassy areas and forests, it is very docile and will chase off enemies by flapping up sand. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is docile and prefers to avoid conflict. If disturbed, however, it can ferociously strike back. X A common sight in forests and woods. It flaps its wings at ground level to kick up blinding sand. Y It is docile and prefers to avoid conflict. If disturbed, however, it can ferociously strike back. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Pidgey has an extremely sharp sense of direction. It is capable of unerringly returning home to its nest, however far it may be removed from its familiar surroundings. 
Pidgeotto	017	Generation 1	Normal Flying 		Bird Pokemon		 Keen Eye Tangled Feet Big Pecks  	3′7″ (1.09m) 		66.1 lbs (30.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Very protective of its sprawling territorial area, this POKéMON will fiercely peck at any intruder. Yellow This POKéMON is full of vitality. It constantly flies around its large territory in search of prey. Gold It has outstanding vision. However high it flies, it is able to distinguish the movements of its prey. Silver It immobilizes its prey using well-developed claws, then carries the prey more than 60 miles to its nest. Crystal It slowly flies in a circular pattern, all the while keeping a sharp lookout for prey. Ruby Sapphire PIDGEOTTO claims a large area as its own territory. This POKéMON flies around, patrolling its living space. If its territory is violated, it shows no mercy in thoroughly punishing the foe with its sharp claws. FireRed The claws on its feet are well developed. It can carry prey such as an EXEGGCUTE to its nest over 60 miles away. LeafGreen Very protective of its sprawling territorial area, this POKéMON will fiercely peck at any intruder. Emerald This POKéMON flies around, patrolling its large territory. If its living space is violated, it shows no mercy in thoroughly punishing the foe with its sharp claws. Diamond Pearl Platinum It flies over its wide territory in search of prey, downing it with its highly developed claws. HeartGold It has outstanding vision. However high it flies, it is able to distinguish the movements of its prey. SoulSilver It renders its prey immobile using well-developed claws, then carries the prey more than 60 miles to its nest. Black White Black 2 White 2 It flies over its wide territory in search of prey, downing it with its highly developed claws. X The claws on its feet are well developed. It can carry prey such as an Exeggcute to its nest over 60 miles away. Y Very protective of its sprawling territorial area, this Pokémon will fiercely peck at any intruder. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Pidgeotto claims a large area as its own territory. This Pokémon flies around, patrolling its living space. If its territory is violated, it shows no mercy in thoroughly punishing the foe with its sharp claws. 
Pidgeot		018	Generation 1	Normal Flying 		Bird Pokemon		 Keen Eye Tangled Feet Big Pecks  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		87.1 lbs (39.5 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue When hunting, it skims the surface of water at high speed to pick off unwary prey such as MAGIKARP. Yellow This POKéMON flies at Mach 2 speed, seeking prey. Its large talons are feared as wicked weapons. Gold Its well-developed chest muscles make it strong enough to whip up a gusty windstorm with just a few flaps. Silver It spreads its beautiful wings wide to frighten its enemies. It can fly at Mach 2 speed. Crystal Its outstanding vision allows it to spot splashing MAGIKARP, even while flying at 3300 feet. Ruby Sapphire This POKéMON has a dazzling plumage of beautifully glossy feathers. Many TRAINERS are captivated by the striking beauty of the feathers on its head, compelling them to choose PIDGEOT as their POKéMON. FireRed It spreads its gorgeous wings widely to intimidate enemies. It races through the skies at Mach-2 speed. LeafGreen When hunting, it skims the surface of water at high speed to pick off unwary prey such as MAGIKARP. Emerald This POKéMON has gorgeous, glossy feathers. Many TRAINERS are so captivated by the beautiful feathers on its head that they choose PIDGEOT as their POKéMON. Diamond Pearl Platinum By flapping its wings with all its might, PIDGEOT can make a gust of wind capable of bending tall trees. HeartGold Its well-developed chest muscles make it strong enough to whip up a gusty windstorm with just a few flaps. SoulSilver It spreads its beautiful wings wide to frighten its enemies. It can fly at Mach 2 speed. Black White Black 2 White 2 By flapping its wings with all its might, Pidgeot can make a gust of wind capable of bending tall trees. X When hunting, it skims the surface of water at high speed to pick off unwary prey such as Magikarp. Y It spreads its gorgeous wings widely to intimidate enemies. It races through the skies at Mach-2 speed. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire This Pokémon has a dazzling plumage of beautifully glossy feathers. Many Trainers are captivated by the striking beauty of the feathers on its head, compelling them to choose Pidgeot as their Pokémon. 
Rattata		019	Generation 1	Normal 			Mouse Pokemon		 Guts Run Away Hustle  			1′0″ (0.30m) 		7.7 lbs (3.5 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Bites anything when it attacks. Small and very quick, it is a common sight in many places. Yellow Will chew on anything with its fangs. If you see one, it is certain that 40 more live in the area. Gold It eats anything. Wherever food is available, it will settle down and produce offspring continuously. Silver Living wherever there is food available, it ceaselessly scavenges for edibles the entire day. Crystal This POKéMON's impressive vitality allows it to live anywhere. It also multiplies very quickly. Ruby Sapphire RATTATA is cautious in the extreme. Even while it is asleep, it constantly listens by moving its ears around. It is not picky about where it lives - it will make its nest anywhere. FireRed Its fangs are long and very sharp. They grow continuously, so it gnaws on hard things to whittle them down. LeafGreen Bites anything when it attacks. Small and very quick, it is a common sight in many places. Emerald A RATTATA is cautious in the extreme. Even while it is asleep, it constantly moves its ears and listens for danger. It will make its nest anywhere. Diamond Pearl Platinum Cautious in the extreme, its hardy vitality lets it live in any kind of environment. HeartGold It eats anything. Wherever food is available, it will settle down and produce offspring continuously. SoulSilver Living wherever there is food available, it ceaselessly scavenges for edibles the entire day. Black White Cautious in the extreme, its hardy vitality lets it live in any kind of environment. Black 2 White 2 It searches for food all day. It gnaws on hard objects to wear down its fangs, which grow constantly during its lifetime. X Living wherever there is food available, it ceaselessly scavenges for edibles the entire day. Y Its fangs are long and very sharp. They grow continuously, so it gnaws on hard things to whittle them down. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Rattata is cautious in the extreme. Even while it is asleep, it constantly listens by moving its ears around. It is not picky about where it lives—it will make its nest anywhere. Sun Its incisors continue growing until its death. If its Trainer doesn’t offer it a file to gnaw on, it will gnaw on door frames, table legs, and so on. Moon With their strong capacity for survival, they can live in dirty places without concern. Left unchecked, their numbers multiply rapidly. 
Raticate	020	Generation 1	Normal 			Mouse Pokemon		 Guts Run Away Hustle  			2′4″ (0.71m) 		40.8 lbs (18.5 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue It uses its whiskers to maintain its balance. It apparently slows down if they are cut off. Yellow Its hind feet are webbed. They act as flippers, so it can swim in rivers and hunt for prey. Gold Gnaws on anything with its tough fangs. It can even topple concrete buildings by gnawing on them. Silver Its whiskers help it to maintain balance. Its fangs never stop growing, so it gnaws to pare them down. Crystal The webs on its hind legs enable it to cross rivers. It searches wide areas for food. Ruby Sapphire RATICATE’s sturdy fangs grow steadily. To keep them ground down, it gnaws on rocks and logs. It may even chew on the walls of houses. FireRed Its rear feet have three toes each. They are webbed, enabling it to swim across rivers. LeafGreen It uses its whiskers to maintain its balance. It apparently slows down if they are cut off. Emerald A RATICATE’s sturdy fangs grow steadily. To keep them ground down, it gnaws on rocks and logs. It may even chew on the walls of houses. Diamond Pearl Platinum It whittles its constantly growing fangs by gnawing on hard things. It can chew apart cinder walls. HeartGold Gnaws on anything with its tough fangs. It can even topple concrete buildings by gnawing on them. SoulSilver Its whiskers help it to maintain balance. Its fangs never stop growing, so it gnaws to pare them down. Black White It whittles its constantly growing fangs by gnawing on hard things. It can chew apart cinder walls. Black 2 White 2 With its long fangs, this surprisingly violent Pokémon can gnaw away even thick concrete with ease. X It whittles its constantly growing fangs by gnawing on hard things. It can chew apart cinder walls. Y The webs on its hind legs enable it to cross rivers. It searches wide areas for food. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Raticate’s sturdy fangs grow steadily. To keep them ground down, it gnaws on rocks and logs. It may even chew on the walls of houses. Sun Its hind feet are webbed, so it’s a strong swimmer. It can cross rivers and sometimes even oceans. Moon Its disposition is far more violent than its looks would suggest. Don’t let your hand get too close to its face, as it could bite your hand clean off. 
Spearow		021	Generation 1	Normal Flying 		Tiny Bird Pokemon	 Keen Eye Sniper  			1′0″ (0.30m) 		4.4 lbs (2.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Eats bugs in grassy areas. It has to flap its short wings at high speed to stay airborne. Yellow Inept at flying high. However, it can fly around very fast to protect its territory. Gold It flaps its short wings to flush out insects from tall grass. It then plucks them with its stubby beak. Silver Very protective of its territory, it flaps its short wings busily to dart around at high speed. Crystal To protect its territory, it flies around ceaselessly, making high-pitched cries. Ruby Sapphire SPEAROW has a very loud cry that can be heard over half a mile away. If its high, keening cry is heard echoing all around, it is a sign that they are warning each other of danger. FireRed It busily flits around here and there. Even if it is frail, it can be a tough foe that uses MIRROR MOVE. LeafGreen Eats bugs in grassy areas. It has to flap its short wings at high speed to stay airborne. Emerald Its loud cry can be heard over half a mile away. If its high, keening cry is heard echoing all around, it is a sign that they are warning each other of danger. Diamond Pearl Platinum It flaps its small wings busily to fly. Using its beak, it searches in grass for prey. HeartGold It flaps its short wings to flush out insects from tall grass. It then plucks them with its stubby beak. SoulSilver Very protective of its territory, it flaps its short wings busily to dart around at high speed. Black White Black 2 White 2 It flaps its small wings busily to fly. Using its beak, it searches in grass for prey. X Very protective of its territory, it flaps its short wings busily to dart around at high speed. Y Eats bugs in grassy areas. It has to flap its short wings at high speed to stay airborne. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Spearow has a very loud cry that can be heard over half a mile away. If its high, keening cry is heard echoing all around, it is a sign that they are warning each other of danger. Sun Its short wings make it inept at flying. It moves about hurriedly and pecks at Bug-type Pokémon in the tall grass. Moon Farmers whose fields are troubled by bug Pokémon appreciate Spearow for its vigorous appetite and look after it. 
Fearow		022	Generation 1	Normal Flying 		Beak Pokemon		 Keen Eye Sniper  			3′11″ (1.19m) 		83.8 lbs (38.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue With its huge and magnificent wings, it can keep aloft without ever having to land for rest. Yellow A POKéMON that dates back many years. If it senses danger, it flies high and away, instantly. Gold It shoots itself suddenly high into the sky, then plummets down in one fell swoop to strike its prey. Silver It cleverly uses its thin, long beak to pluck and eat small insects that hide under the ground. Crystal It uses its long beak to attack. It has a surprisingly long reach, so it must be treated with caution. Ruby Sapphire FEAROW is recognized by its long neck and elongated beak. They are conveniently shaped for catching prey in soil or water. It deftly moves its long and skinny beak to pluck prey. FireRed Its huge and magnificent wings can keep it aloft in the sky. It can remain flying a whole day without landing. LeafGreen With its huge and magnificent wings, it can keep aloft without ever having to land for rest. Emerald Its long neck and elongated beak are ideal for catching prey in soil or water. It deftly moves this extended and skinny beak to pluck prey. Diamond Platinum It has the stamina to fly all day on its broad wings. It fights by using its sharp beak. Pearl It has the stamina to keep flying all day on its broad wings. It fights by using its sharp beak. HeartGold It shoots itself suddenly high into the sky, then plummets down in one fell swoop to strike its prey. SoulSilver It cleverly uses its thin, long beak to pluck and eat small insects that hide under the ground. Black White Black 2 White 2 It has the stamina to fly all day on its broad wings. It fights by using its sharp beak. X With its huge and magnificent wings, it can keep aloft without ever having to land for rest. Y It has the stamina to fly all day on its broad wings. It fights by using its sharp beak. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Fearow is recognized by its long neck and elongated beak. They are conveniently shaped for catching prey in soil or water. It deftly moves its long and skinny beak to pluck prey. Sun It’s tough and has excellent stamina. It has no problem flying continuously for a whole day carrying a heavy load. Moon Drawings of a Pokémon resembling Fearow can be seen in murals from deep in ancient history. 
Ekans		023	Generation 1	Poison 			Snake Pokemon		 Intimidate Shed Skin Unnerve  	6′7″ (2.01m) 		15.2 lbs (6.9 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Moves silently and stealthily. Eats the eggs of birds, such as PIDGEY and SPEAROW, whole. Yellow The older it gets, the longer it grows. At night, it wraps its long body around tree branches to rest. Gold It can freely detach its jaw to swallow large prey whole. It can become too heavy to move, however. Silver It always hides in grass. When first born, it has no poison, so its bite is painful, but harmless. Crystal It flutters the tip of its tongue to seek out the scent of prey, then swallows the prey whole. Ruby Sapphire EKANS curls itself up in a spiral while it rests. Assuming this position allows it to quickly respond to a threat from any direction with a glare from its upraised head. FireRed A very common sight in grassland, etc. It flicks its tongue in and out to sense danger in its surroundings. LeafGreen Moving silently and stealthily, it eats the eggs of birds, such as PIDGEY and SPEAROW, whole. Emerald An EKANS curls itself up in a spiral while it rests. This position allows it to quickly respond to an enemy from any direction with a threat from its upraised head. Diamond Pearl Platinum It sneaks through grass without making a sound and strikes unsuspecting prey from behind. HeartGold It can freely detach its jaw to swallow large prey whole. It can become too heavy to move, however. SoulSilver It always hides in grass. When first born, it has no poison, so its bite is painful, but harmless. Black White Black 2 White 2 It sneaks through grass without making a sound and strikes unsuspecting prey from behind. X The older it gets, the longer it grows. At night, it wraps its long body around tree branches to rest. Y Moving silently and stealthily, it eats the eggs of birds, such as Pidgey and Spearow, whole. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Ekans curls itself up in a spiral while it rests. Assuming this position allows it to quickly respond to a threat from any direction with a glare from its upraised head. 
Arbok		024	Generation 1	Poison 			Cobra Pokemon		 Intimidate Shed Skin Unnerve  	11′6″ (3.51m) 		143.3 lbs (65.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue It is rumored that the ferocious warning markings on its belly differ from area to area. Yellow The frightening patterns on its belly have been studied. Six variations have been confirmed. Gold Transfixing prey with the face-like pattern on its belly, it binds and poisons the frightened victim. Silver With a very vengeful nature, it won't give up the chase, no matter how far, once it targets its prey. Crystal To intimidate foes, it spreads its chest wide and makes eerie sounds by expelling air from its mouth. Ruby Sapphire This POKéMON is terrifically strong in order to constrict things with its body. It can even flatten steel oil drums. Once ARBOK wraps its body around its foe, escaping its crunching embrace is impossible. FireRed The pattern on its belly appears to be a frightening face. Weak foes will flee just at the sight of the pattern. LeafGreen It is rumored that the ferocious warning markings on its belly differ from area to area. Emerald This POKéMON has a terrifically strong constricting power. It can even flatten steel oil drums. Once it wraps its body around its foe, escaping is impossible. Diamond Pearl Platinum The pattern on its belly is for intimidation. It constricts foes while they are frozen in fear. HeartGold Transfixing prey with the face-like pattern on its belly, it binds and poisons the frightened victim. SoulSilver With a very vengeful nature, it won’t give up the chase, no matter how far, once it targets its prey. Black White Black 2 White 2 The pattern on its belly is for intimidation. It constricts foes while they are frozen in fear. X The pattern on its belly appears to be a frightening face. Weak foes will flee just at the sight of the pattern. Y To intimidate foes, it spreads its chest wide and makes eerie sounds by expelling air from its mouth. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire This Pokémon is terrifically strong in order to constrict things with its body. It can even flatten steel oil drums. Once Arbok wraps its body around its foe, escaping its crunching embrace is impossible. 
Pikachu		025	Generation 1	Electric 		Mouse Pokemon		 Static Lightning Rod  			1′4″ (0.41m) 		13.2 lbs (6.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue When several of these POKéMON gather, their electricity could build and cause lightning storms. Yellow It keeps its tail raised to monitor its surroundings. If you yank its tail, it will try to bite you. Gold This intelligent POKéMON roasts hard BERRIES with electricity to make them tender enough to eat. Silver It raises its tail to check its surroundings. The tail is sometimes struck by lightning in this pose. Crystal When it is angered, it immediately discharges the energy stored in the pouches in its cheeks. Ruby Whenever PIKACHU comes across something new, it blasts it with a jolt of electricity. If you come across a blackened berry, it’s evidence that this POKéMON mistook the intensity of its charge. Sapphire This POKéMON has electricity-storing pouches on its cheeks. These appear to become electrically charged during the night while PIKACHU sleeps. It occasionally discharges electricity when it is dozy after waking up. FireRed It has small electric sacs on both its cheeks. If threatened, it looses electric charges from the sacs. LeafGreen When several of these POKéMON gather, their electricity can build and cause lightning storms. Emerald It stores electricity in the electric sacs on its cheeks. When it releases pent-up energy in a burst, the electric power is equal to a lightning bolt. Diamond It lives in forests with others. It stores electricity in the pouches on its cheeks. Pearl If it looses crackling power from the electric pouches on its cheeks, it is being wary. Platinum It occasionally uses an electric shock to recharge a fellow PIKACHU that is in a weakened state. HeartGold This intelligent Pokémon roasts hard berries with electricity to make them tender enough to eat. SoulSilver It raises its tail to check its surroundings. The tail is sometimes struck by lightning in this pose. Black White Black 2 White 2 It occasionally uses an electric shock to recharge a fellow Pikachu that is in a weakened state. X It raises its tail to check its surroundings. The tail is sometimes struck by lightning in this pose. Y It has small electric sacs on both its cheeks. If threatened, it looses electric charges from the sacs. Omega Ruby Whenever Pikachu comes across something new, it blasts it with a jolt of electricity. If you come across a blackened berry, it’s evidence that this Pokémon mistook the intensity of its charge. Alpha Sapphire This Pokémon has electricity-storing pouches on its cheeks. These appear to become electrically charged during the night while Pikachu sleeps. It occasionally discharges electricity when it is dozy after waking up. Sun A plan was recently announced to gather many Pikachu and make an electric power plant. Moon It’s in its nature to store electricity. It feels stressed now and then if it’s unable to fully discharge the electricity. 
Raichu		026	Generation 1	Electric 		Mouse Pokemon		 Static Lightning Rod  			2′7″ (0.79m) 		66.1 lbs (30.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Its long tail serves as a ground to protect itself from its own high voltage power. Yellow When electricity builds up inside its body, it becomes feisty. It also glows in the dark. Gold When its electricity builds, its muscles are stimulated, and it becomes more aggressive than usual. Silver If the electric pouches in its cheeks become fully charged, both ears will stand straight up. Crystal If its electric pouches run empty, it raises its tail to gather electricity from the atmosphere. Ruby If the electrical sacks become excessively charged, RAICHU plants its tail in the ground and discharges. Scorched patches of ground will be found near this POKéMON’s nest. Sapphire This POKéMON exudes a weak electrical charge from all over its body that makes it take on a slight glow in darkness. RAICHU searches for electricity by planting its tail in the ground. FireRed Its electric charges can reach even 100,000 volts. Careless contact can cause even an Indian elephant to faint. LeafGreen Its long tail serves as a ground to protect itself from its own high-voltage power. Emerald If it stores too much electricity, its behavior turns aggressive. To avoid this, it occasionally discharges excess energy and calms itself down. Diamond It turns aggressive if it has too much electricity in its body. It discharges power through its tail. Pearl It can loose 100,000-volt bursts of electricity, instantly downing foes several times its size. Platinum Its tail discharges electricity into the ground, protecting it from getting shocked. HeartGold When its electricity builds, its muscles are stimulated, and it becomes more aggressive than usual. SoulSilver If the electric pouches in its cheeks become fully charged, both ears will stand straight up. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its tail discharges electricity into the ground, protecting it from getting shocked. X When its electricity builds, its muscles are stimulated, and it becomes more aggressive than usual. Y It can loose 100,000-volt bursts of electricity, instantly downing foes several times its size. Omega Ruby If the electrical sacs become excessively charged, Raichu plants its tail in the ground and discharges. Scorched patches of ground will be found near this Pokémon’s nest. Alpha Sapphire This Pokémon exudes a weak electrical charge from all over its body that makes it take on a slight glow in darkness. Raichu plants its tail in the ground to discharge electricity. Sun It unleashes electric shocks that can reach 100,000 volts. When agitated, it can knock out even an Indian elephant. Moon It becomes aggressive when it has electricity stored up. At such times, even its Trainer has to take care to avoid being attacked. 
Sandshrew	027	Generation 1	Ground 			Mouse Pokemon		 Sand Veil Sand Rush  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		26.5 lbs (12.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Burrows deep underground in arid locations far from water. It only emerges to hunt for food. Yellow Its body is dry. When it gets cold at night, its hide is said to become coated with a fine dew. Gold If it fell from a great height, this POKéMON could save itself by rolling into a ball and bouncing. Silver Disliking water, it lives in deep burrows in arid areas. It can roll itself instantly into a ball. Crystal It prefers dry, sandy places because it uses the sand to protect itself when threatened. Ruby SANDSHREW’s body is configured to absorb water without waste, enabling it to survive in an arid desert. This POKéMON curls up to protect itself from its enemies. Sapphire SANDSHREW has a very dry hide that is extremely tough. The POKéMON can roll into a ball that repels any attack. At night, it burrows into the desert sand to sleep. FireRed It burrows and lives underground. If threatened, it curls itself up into a ball for protection. LeafGreen Burrows deep underground in arid locations far from water. It only emerges to hunt for prey. Emerald When it curls up in a ball, it can make any attack bounce off harmlessly. Its hide has turned tough and solid as a result of living in the desert. Diamond Pearl Platinum To protect itself from attackers, it curls up into a ball. It lives in arid regions with minimal rainfall. HeartGold If it fell from a great height, this Pokémon could save itself by rolling into a ball and bouncing. SoulSilver Disliking water, it lives in deep burrows in arid areas. It can roll itself instantly into a ball. Black White To protect itself from attackers, it curls up into a ball. It lives in arid regions with minimal rainfall. Black 2 White 2 It digs deep burrows to live in. When in danger, it rolls up its body to withstand attacks. X It burrows and lives underground. If threatened, it curls itself up into a ball for protection. Y Disliking water, it lives in deep burrows in arid areas. It can roll itself instantly into a ball. Omega Ruby Sandshrew’s body is configured to absorb water without waste, enabling it to survive in an arid desert. This Pokémon curls up to protect itself from its enemies. Alpha Sapphire Sandshrew has a very dry hide that is extremely tough. The Pokémon can roll into a ball that repels any attack. At night, it burrows into the desert sand to sleep. Sun It can roll its body into a ball. It moves through the desert by rolling at high speeds. Moon It usually makes its home in deserts and arid zones, where rain does not fall. It digs holes to catch Bug-type Pokémon. 
Sandslash	028	Generation 1	Ground 			Mouse Pokemon		 Sand Veil Sand Rush  			3′3″ (0.99m) 		65 lbs (29.5 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Curls up into a spiny ball when threatened. It can roll while curled up to attack or escape. Yellow It is skilled at slashing enemies with its claws. If broken, they start to grow back in a day. Gold In an attempt to hide itself, it will run around at top speed to kick up a blinding dust storm. Silver If it digs at an incredible pace, it may snap off its spikes and claws. They grow back in a day. Crystal Adept at climbing trees, it rolls into a spiny ball, then attacks its enemies from above. Ruby SANDSLASH’s body is covered by tough spikes, which are hardened sections of its hide. Once a year, the old spikes fall out, to be replaced with new spikes that grow out from beneath the old ones. Sapphire SANDSLASH can roll up its body as if it were a ball covered with large spikes. In battle, this POKéMON will try to make the foe flinch by jabbing it with its spines. It then leaps at the stunned foe to tear wildly with its sharp claws. FireRed It is adept at attacking with the spines on its back and its sharp claws while quickly scurrying about. LeafGreen Curls up into a spiny ball when threatened. It can roll while curled up to attack or escape. Emerald It curls up in a ball to protect itself from enemy attacks. It also curls up to prevent heatstroke during the daytime when temperatures rise sharply. Diamond Pearl Platinum It curls up, then rolls into foes with its back. Its sharp spines inflict severe damage. HeartGold In an attempt to hide itself, it will run around at top speed to kick up a blinding dust storm. SoulSilver If it digs at an incredible pace, it may snap off its spikes and claws. They grow back in a day. Black White It curls up, then rolls into foes with its back. Its sharp spines inflict severe damage. Black 2 White 2 The spikes on its body are made up of its hardened hide. It rolls up and attacks foes with its spikes. X If it digs at an incredible pace, it may snap off its spikes and claws. They grow back in a day. Y Curls up into a spiny ball when threatened. It can roll while curled up to attack or escape. Omega Ruby Sandslash’s body is covered by tough spikes, which are hardened sections of its hide. Once a year, the old spikes fall out, to be replaced with new spikes that grow out from beneath the old ones. Alpha Sapphire Sandslash can roll up its body as if it were a ball covered with large spikes. In battle, this Pokémon will try to make the foe flinch by jabbing it with its spines. It then leaps at the stunned foe to tear wildly with its sharp claws. Sun Although they are sharp, its claws and spikes often break off. They grow back the next day, so it is not bothered by the temporary loss. Moon It uses its claws to climb trees and then curls its body into a spiny ball, ready to drop onto any prey that appears. 
Nidorina	030	Generation 1	Poison 			Poison Pin Pokemon	 Poison Point Rivalry Hustle  	2′7″ (0.79m) 		44.1 lbs (20.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue The female's horn develops slowly. Prefers physical attacks such as clawing and biting. Yellow When resting deep in its burrow, its thorns always retract. This is proof that it is relaxed. Gold When feeding its young, it first chews and tenderizes the food, then spits it out for the offspring. Silver It has a calm and caring nature. Because its horn grows slowly, it prefers not to fight. Crystal It has a docile nature. If it is threatened with attack, it raises the barbs that are all over its body. Ruby Sapphire When NIDORINA are with their friends or family, they keep their barbs tucked away to prevent hurting each other. This POKéMON appears to become nervous if separated from the others. FireRed The female has a gentle temperament. It emits ultrasonic cries that have the power to befuddle foes. LeafGreen The female’s horns develop slowly. Prefers physical attacks such as clawing and biting. Emerald When it is with its friends or family, its barbs are tucked away to prevent injury. It appears to become nervous if separated from the others. Diamond Pearl Platinum When it senses danger, it raises all the barbs on its body. These barbs grow slower than NIDORINO’s. HeartGold When feeding its young, it first chews the food into a paste, then spits it out for the offspring. SoulSilver It has a calm and caring nature. Because its horn grows slowly, it prefers not to fight. Black White Black 2 White 2 When it senses danger, it raises all the barbs on its body. These barbs grow slower than Nidorino’s. X The female has a gentle temperament. It emits ultrasonic cries that have the power to befuddle foes. Y When feeding its young, it first chews the food into a paste, then spits it out for the offspring. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire When Nidorina are with their friends or family, they keep their barbs tucked away to prevent hurting each other. This Pokémon appears to become nervous if separated from the others. 
Nidoqueen	031	Generation 1	Poison Ground 		Drill Pokemon		 Poison Point Rivalry Sheer Force  	4′3″ (1.30m) 		132.3 lbs (60.0 kg) 		Second stage
Red Blue Its hard scales provide strong protection. It uses its hefty bulk to execute powerful moves. Yellow Tough scales cover the sturdy body of this POKéMON. It appears that the scales grow in cycles. Gold Its body is covered with needle-like scales. It never shows signs of shrinking from any attack. Silver It uses its scaly, rugged body to seal the entrance of its nest and protect its young from predators. Crystal The hard scales that cover its strong body serve as excellent protection from any attack. Ruby Sapphire NIDOQUEEN’s body is encased in extremely hard scales. It is adept at sending foes flying with harsh tackles. This POKéMON is at its strongest when it is defending its young. FireRed The body is covered by stiff, needle-like scales. If it becomes excited, the needles bristle outwards. LeafGreen Its hard scales provide strong protection. It uses its hefty bulk to execute powerful moves. Emerald It is adept at sending foes flying with harsh tackles using its tough, scaly body. This POKéMON is at its strongest when it is defending its young. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its entire body is armored with hard scales. It will protect the young in its burrow with its life. HeartGold Its body is covered with needle-like scales. It never shows signs of shrinking from any attack. SoulSilver It uses its scaly, rugged body to seal the entrance of its nest and protect its young from predators. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its entire body is armored with hard scales. It will protect the young in its burrow with its life. X It uses its scaly, rugged body to seal the entrance of its nest and protect its young from predators. Y The body is covered by stiff, needlelike scales. If it becomes excited, the needles bristle outwards. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Nidoqueen’s body is encased in extremely hard scales. It is adept at sending foes flying with harsh tackles. This Pokémon is at its strongest when it is defending its young. 
Nidorino	033	Generation 1	Poison 			Poison Pin Pokemon	 Poison Point Rivalry Hustle  	2′11″ (0.89m) 		43 lbs (19.5 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue An aggressive POKéMON that is quick to attack. The horn on its head secretes a powerful venom. Yellow Its horns contain venom. If they are stabbed into an enemy, the impact makes the poison leak out. Gold It raises its big ears to check its surroundings. If it senses anything, it attacks immediately. Silver Quick to anger, it stabs enemies with its horn to inject a powerful poison when it becomes agitated. Crystal It is easily agitated and uses its horn for offense as soon as it notices an attacker. Ruby Sapphire NIDORINO has a horn that is harder than a diamond. If it senses a hostile presence, all the barbs on its back bristle up at once, and it challenges the foe with all its might. FireRed It is easily angered. By swinging its well-developed horn wildly, it can even punch through diamond. LeafGreen An aggressive POKéMON that is quick to attack. The horn on its head secretes a powerful venom. Emerald Its horn is harder than a diamond. If it senses a hostile presence, all the barbs on its back bristle up at once, and it challenges the foe with all its might. Diamond Pearl Platinum It has a violent disposition and stabs foes with its horn, which oozes poison upon impact. HeartGold It raises its big ears to check its surroundings. If it senses anything, it attacks immediately. SoulSilver Quick to anger, it stabs enemies with its horn to inject a powerful poison when it becomes agitated. Black White Black 2 White 2 It has a violent disposition and stabs foes with its horn, which oozes poison upon impact. X It raises its big ears to check its surroundings. If it senses anything, it attacks immediately. Y An aggressive Pokémon that is quick to attack. The horn on its head secretes a powerful venom. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Nidorino has a horn that is harder than a diamond. If it senses a hostile presence, all the barbs on its back bristle up at once, and it challenges the foe with all its might. 
Nidoking	034	Generation 1	Poison Ground 		Drill Pokemon		 Poison Point Rivalry Sheer Force  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		136.7 lbs (62.0 kg) 		Second stage
Red Blue It uses its powerful tail in battle to smash, constrict, then break the prey's bones. Yellow Its steel-like hide adds to its powerful tackle. Its horns are so hard, they can pierce a diamond. Gold It swings its big tail around during battle. If its foe flinches, it will charge with its sturdy body. Silver Its tail is thick and powerful. If it binds an enemy, it can snap the victim's spine quite easily. Crystal It uses its thick arms, legs and tail to attack forcefully. Melee combat is its specialty. Ruby Sapphire NIDOKING’s thick tail packs enormously destructive power. With one swing, it can topple a metal transmission tower. Once this POKéMON goes on a rampage, there is no stopping it. FireRed It is recognized by its rock-hard hide and its extended horn. Be careful with the horn as it contains venom. LeafGreen It uses its powerful tail in battle to smash, constrict, then break the prey’s bones. Emerald A NIDOKING’s thick tail packs enormously destructive power capable of toppling a metal transmission tower. Once it goes on a rampage, there is no stopping it. Diamond Pearl Platinum One swing of its mighty tail can snap a telephone pole as if it were a matchstick. HeartGold It swings its big tail around during battle. If its foe flinches, it will charge with its sturdy body. SoulSilver Its tail is thick and powerful. If it binds an enemy, it can render the victim helpless quite easily. Black White Black 2 White 2 One swing of its mighty tail can snap a telephone pole as if it were a matchstick. X It is recognized by its rock-hard hide and its extended horn. Be careful with the horn, as it contains venom. Y One swing of its mighty tail can snap a telephone pole as if it were a matchstick. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Nidoking’s thick tail packs enormously destructive power. With one swing, it can topple a metal transmission tower. Once this Pokémon goes on a rampage, there is no stopping it. 
Clefairy	035	Generation 1	Fairy 			Fairy Pokemon		 Cute Charm Magic Guard Friend Guard  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		16.5 lbs (7.5 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Its magical and cute appeal has many admirers. It is rare and found only in certain areas. Yellow Adored for their cute looks and playfulness. They are thought to be rare, as they do not appear often. Gold The moonlight that it stores in the wings on its back apparently gives it the ability to float in midair. Silver Its adorable behavior and cry make it highly popular. However, this cute POKéMON is rarely found. Crystal Though rarely seen, it becomes easier to spot, for some reason, on the night of a full moon. Ruby Sapphire On every night of a full moon, groups of this POKéMON come out to play. When dawn arrives, the tired CLEFAIRY return to their quiet mountain retreats and go to sleep nestled up against each other. FireRed Its adorable appearance makes it popular as a pet. However, it is rare and difficult to find. LeafGreen With its magical and cute appeal, it has many admirers. It is rare and found only in certain areas. Emerald On every night of a full moon, they come out to play. When dawn arrives, the tired CLEFAIRY go to sleep nestled up against each other in deep and quiet mountains. Diamond Thought to live with others on quiet mountains, it is popular for its adorable nature. Pearl It flies using the wings on its back to collect moonlight. This Pokémon is difficult to find. Platinum It is said that happiness will come to those who see a gathering of CLEFAIRY dancing under a full moon. HeartGold The moonlight that it stores in the wings on its back apparently gives it the ability to float in midair. SoulSilver Its adorable behavior and cry make it highly popular. However, this cute Pokémon is rarely found. Black White It is said that happiness will come to those who see a gathering of Clefairy dancing under a full moon. Black 2 White 2 On nights with a full moon, Clefairy gather from all over and dance. Bathing in moonlight makes them float. X It is said that happiness will come to those who see a gathering of Clefairy dancing under a full moon. Y The moonlight that it stores in the wings on its back apparently gives it the ability to float in midair. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire On every night of a full moon, groups of this Pokémon come out to play. When dawn arrives, the tired Clefairy return to their quiet mountain retreats and go to sleep nestled up against each other. Sun Its adorable behavior and appearance make it popular with men and women, young and old. Its numbers are few, however. Moon On nights with a full moon, they gather together and dance. The surrounding area is enveloped in an abnormal magnetic field. 
Clefable	036	Generation 1	Fairy 			Fairy Pokemon		 Cute Charm Magic Guard Unaware  	4′3″ (1.30m) 		88.2 lbs (40.0 kg) 		Second stage
Red Blue A timid fairy POKéMON that is rarely seen. It will run and hide the moment it senses people. Yellow They appear to be very protective of their own world. It is a kind of fairy, rarely seen by people. Gold With its acute hearing, it can pick up sounds from far away. It usually hides in quiet places. Silver Its very sensitive ears lets it distinguish distant sounds. As a result, it prefers quiet places. Crystal Said to live in quiet, remote mountains, this type of fairy has a strong aversion to being seen. Ruby Sapphire CLEFABLE moves by skipping lightly as if it were flying using its wings. Its bouncy step lets it even walk on water. It is known to take strolls on lakes on quiet, moonlit nights. FireRed It has an acute sense of hearing. It can easily hear a pin being dropped nearly 1,100 yards away. LeafGreen A timid fairy POKéMON that is rarely seen, it will run and hide the moment it senses people. Emerald A CLEFABLE uses its wings to skip lightly as if it were flying. Its bouncy step lets it even walk on water. On quiet, moonlit nights, it strolls on lakes. Diamond Rarely seen by people, it is said to be drawn by the full moon to play at deserted lakes. Pearl Its hearing is so acute it can hear a pin drop over half a mile away. It lives on quiet mountains. Platinum It is very wary and rarely shows itself to people. Its ears can hear a pin drop over half a mile away. HeartGold With its acute hearing, it can pick up sounds from far away. It usually hides in quiet places. SoulSilver Its very sensitive ears let it distinguish distant sounds. As a result, it prefers quiet places. Black White It is very wary and rarely shows itself to people. Its ears can hear a pin drop over half a mile away. Black 2 White 2 Their ears are sensitive enough to hear a pin drop from over a mile away, so they’re usually found in quiet places. X Its hearing is so acute it can hear a pin drop over half a mile away. It lives on quiet mountains. Y A timid fairy Pokémon that is rarely seen, it will run and hide the moment it senses people. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Clefable moves by skipping lightly as if it were flying using its wings. Its bouncy step lets it even walk on water. It is known to take strolls on lakes on quiet, moonlit nights. Sun They don’t like to reveal themselves in front of people. They live quietly in packs deep in the mountains. Moon According to tradition, people who see a pair of Clefable skipping by can look forward to a happy marriage. 
Vulpix		037	Generation 1	Fire 			Fox Pokemon		 Flash Fire Drought  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		21.8 lbs (9.9 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue At the time of birth, it has just one tail. The tail splits from its tip as it grows older. Yellow Both its fur and its tails are beautiful. As it grows, the tails split and form more tails. Gold As it develops, its single white tail gains color and splits into six. It is quite warm and cuddly. Silver If it is attacked by an enemy that is stronger than itself, it feigns injury to fool the enemy and escapes. Crystal As its body grows larger, its six warm tails become more beautiful, with a more luxurious coat of fur. Ruby At the time of its birth, VULPIX has one white tail. The tail separates into six if this POKéMON receives plenty of love from its TRAINER. The six tails become magnificently curled. Sapphire Inside VULPIX’s body burns a flame that never goes out. During the daytime, when the temperatures rise, this POKéMON releases flames from its mouth to prevent its body from growing too hot. FireRed While young, it has six gorgeous tails. When it grows, several new tails are sprouted. LeafGreen When it is born, it has just one snow-white tail. The tail splits from its tip as it grows older. Emerald It can freely control fire, making fiery orbs fly like will-o’-the-wisps. Just before evolution, its six tails grow hot as if on fire. Diamond Pearl Platinum It controls balls of fire. As it grows, its six tails split from their tips to make more tails. HeartGold As it develops, its single white tail gains color and splits into six. It is quite warm and cuddly. SoulSilver If it is attacked by an enemy that is stronger than itself, it feigns injury to fool the enemy and escapes. Black White It controls balls of fire. As it grows, its six tails split from their tips to make more tails. Black 2 White 2 As each tail grows, its fur becomes more lustrous. When held, it feels slightly warm. X When it is born, it has just one snow-white tail. The tail splits from its tip as it grows older. Y While young, it has six gorgeous tails. When it grows, several new tails are sprouted. Omega Ruby At the time of its birth, Vulpix has one white tail. The tail separates into six if this Pokémon receives plenty of love from its Trainer. The six tails become magnificently curled. Alpha Sapphire Inside Vulpix’s body burns a flame that never goes out. During the daytime, when the temperatures rise, this Pokémon releases flames from its mouth to prevent its body from growing too hot. Sun Its beautiful fur and tails have made it very popular. As it grows, its tails split to form more tails. Moon From its mouth spew flames that seem to resemble the spirits of the deceased. Some people mistakenly think this fire is a ghost. 
Ninetales	038	Generation 1	Fire 			Fox Pokemon		 Flash Fire Drought  			3′7″ (1.09m) 		43.9 lbs (19.9 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Very smart and very vengeful. Grabbing one of its many tails could result in a 1000-year curse. Yellow According to an enduring legend, 9 noble saints were united and reincarnated as this POKéMON. Gold Some legends claim that each of its nine tails has its own unique type of special mystical power. Silver Its nine beautiful tails are filled with a wondrous energy that could keep it alive for 1,000 years. Crystal It is said to live a thousand years, and each of its tails is loaded with supernatural powers. Ruby NINETALES casts a sinister light from its bright red eyes to gain total control over its foe’s mind. This POKéMON is said to live for a thousand years. Sapphire Legend has it that NINETALES came into being when nine wizards possessing sacred powers merged into one. This POKéMON is highly intelligent - it can understand human speech. FireRed It has nine long tails and fur that gleams gold. It is said to live for 1,000 years. LeafGreen Very smart and very vengeful. Grabbing one of its many tails could result in a 1,000-year curse. Emerald It has long been said that each of the nine tails embody an enchanted power. A long-lived NINETALES will have fur that shines like gold. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its nine tails are said to be imbued with a mystic power. It can live for a thousand years. HeartGold Some legends claim that each of its nine tails has its own unique type of special mystical power. SoulSilver Its nine beautiful tails are filled with a wondrous energy that could keep it alive for 1,000 years. Black White Its nine tails are said to be imbued with a mystic power. It can live for a thousand years. Black 2 White 2 Each of its nine tails is imbued with supernatural power, and it can live for a thousand years. X It has nine long tails and fur that gleams gold. It is said to live for 1,000 years. Y Very smart and very vengeful. Grabbing one of its many tails could result in a 1,000-year curse. Omega Ruby Ninetales casts a sinister light from its bright red eyes to gain total control over its foe’s mind. This Pokémon is said to live for a thousand years. Alpha Sapphire Legend has it that Ninetales came into being when nine wizards possessing sacred powers merged into one. This Pokémon is highly intelligent—it can understand human speech. Sun Legend has it that this mystical Pokémon was formed when nine saints coalesced into one. Moon Said to live for a thousand years, this Pokémon uses its supernatural abilities to manipulate fire. It can burn its prey to a crisp as it pleases. 
Jigglypuff	039	Generation 1	Normal Fairy 		Balloon Pokemon		 Competitive Cute Charm Friend Guard  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		12.1 lbs (5.5 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue When its huge eyes light up, it sings a mysteriously soothing melody that lulls its enemies to sleep. Yellow Uses its alluring eyes to enrapture its foe. It then sings a pleasing melody that lulls the foe to sleep. Gold If it inflates to SING a lullaby, it can perform longer and cause sure drowsiness in its audience. Silver Looking into its cute, round eyes causes it to sing a relaxing melody, inducing its enemies to sleep. Crystal It rolls its cute eyes as it sings a soothing lullaby. Its gentle song puts anyone who hears it to sleep. Ruby JIGGLYPUFF’s vocal chords can freely adjust the wavelength of its voice. This POKéMON uses this ability to sing at precisely the right wavelength to make its foes most drowsy. Sapphire When this POKéMON sings, it never pauses to breathe. If it is in a battle against an opponent that does not easily fall asleep, JIGGLYPUFF cannot breathe, endangering its life. FireRed It captivates foes with its huge, round eyes, then lulls them to sleep by singing a soothing melody. LeafGreen When its huge eyes waver, it sings a mysteriously soothing melody that lulls its enemies to sleep. Emerald Nothing can avoid falling asleep hearing a JIGGLYPUFF’s song. The sound waves of its singing voice match the brain waves of someone in a deep sleep. Diamond Pearl Platinum When it wavers its big, round eyes, it begins singing a lullaby that makes everyone drowsy. HeartGold If it inflates to sing a lullaby, it can perform longer and cause sure drowsiness in its audience. SoulSilver Looking into its cute, round eyes causes it to sing a relaxing melody, inducing its enemies to sleep. Black White When it wavers its big, round eyes, it begins singing a lullaby that makes everyone drowsy. Black 2 White 2 Looking into its cute, round eyes makes it start singing a song so pleasant listeners can’t help but fall asleep. X It captivates foes with its huge, round eyes, then lulls them to sleep by singing a soothing melody. Y If it inflates to sing a lullaby, it can perform longer and cause sure drowsiness in its audience. Omega Ruby Jigglypuff’s vocal cords can freely adjust the wavelength of its voice. This Pokémon uses this ability to sing at precisely the right wavelength to make its foes most drowsy. Alpha Sapphire When this Pokémon sings, it never pauses to breathe. If it is in a battle against an opponent that does not easily fall asleep, Jigglypuff cannot breathe, endangering its life. Sun It hugely inflates its stomach and sings a mysterious melody. If you hear this melody, you’ll become sleepy right away. Moon Jigglypuff possess a vocal range that exceeds 12 octaves, but each individual’s singing skill depends on its own effort. 
Wigglytuff	040	Generation 1	Normal Fairy 		Balloon Pokemon		 Competitive Cute Charm Frisk  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		26.5 lbs (12.0 kg) 		Second stage
Red Blue The body is soft and rubbery. When angered, it will suck in air and inflate itself to an enormous size. Yellow Its body is full of elasticity. By inhaling deeply, it can continue to inflate itself without limit. Gold Their fur feels so good that if two of them snuggle together, they won't want to be separated. Silver It has a very fine fur. Take care not to make it angry, or it may inflate steadily and hit with a BODY SLAM. Crystal The rich, fluffy fur that covers its body feels so good that anyone who feels it can't stop touching it. Ruby WIGGLYTUFF has large, saucerlike eyes. The surfaces of its eyes are always covered with a thin layer of tears. If any dust gets in this POKéMON’s eyes, it is quickly washed away. Sapphire WIGGLYTUFF’s body is very flexible. By inhaling deeply, this POKéMON can inflate itself seemingly without end. Once inflated, WIGGLYTUFF bounces along lightly like a balloon. FireRed Its fur is extremely fine, dense, and supple. The exquisitely pleasant fur conveys an image of luxury. LeafGreen The body is soft and rubbery. When angered, it will suck in air and inflate itself to an enormous size. Emerald Its fur is the ultimate in luxuriousness. Sleeping alongside a WIGGLYTUFF is simply divine. Its body expands seemingly without end when it inhales. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its fine fur feels sublime to the touch. It can expand its body by inhaling air. HeartGold Their fur feels so good that if two of them snuggle together, they won’t want to be separated. SoulSilver It has a very fine fur. Take care not to make it angry, or it may inflate steadily and hit with a body slam. Black White Its fine fur feels sublime to the touch. It can expand its body by inhaling air. Black 2 White 2 Its fine fur feels so pleasant, those who accidentally touch it cannot take their hands away. X Their fur feels so good that if two of them snuggle together, they won’t want to be separated. Y The body is soft and rubbery. When angered, it will suck in air and inflate itself to an enormous size. Omega Ruby Wigglytuff has large, saucerlike eyes. The surfaces of its eyes are always covered with a thin layer of tears. If any dust gets in this Pokémon’s eyes, it is quickly washed away. Alpha Sapphire Wigglytuff’s body is very flexible. By inhaling deeply, this Pokémon can inflate itself seemingly without end. Once inflated, Wigglytuff bounces along lightly like a balloon. Sun It sheds its fine fur when the seasons change. The fur is gathered and spun into a luxurious yarn. Moon As it inhales, it expands...and expands...and expands. Wigglytuff compete to see which one can inflate itself the most. 
Zubat		041	Generation 1	Poison Flying 		Bat Pokemon		 Inner Focus Infiltrator  		2′7″ (0.79m) 		16.5 lbs (7.5 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Forms colonies in perpetually dark places. Uses ultrasonic waves to identify and approach targets. Yellow Emits ultrasonic cries while it flies. They act as a sonar used to check for objects in its way. Gold While flying, it constantly emits ultrasonic waves from its mouth to check its surroundings. Silver Capable of flying safely in dark places, it emits ultrasonic cries to check for any obstacles. Crystal During the day, it gathers with others and hangs from the ceilings of old buildings and caves. Ruby ZUBAT remains quietly unmoving in a dark spot during the bright daylight hours. It does so because prolonged exposure to the sun causes its body to become slightly burned. Sapphire ZUBAT avoids sunlight because exposure causes it to become unhealthy. During the daytime, it stays in caves or under the eaves of old houses, sleeping while hanging upside down. FireRed It has no eyes. Instead, it relies on its ultrasonic cries for echo location to flit about in darkness. LeafGreen It forms colonies in perpetually dark places and uses ultrasonic waves to identify and approach targets. Emerald While living in pitch-black caverns, their eyes gradually grew shut and deprived them of vision. They use ultrasonic waves to detect obstacles. Diamond Even though it has no eyes, it can sense obstacles using ultrasonic waves it emits from its mouth. Pearl Disliking sunlight, it sleeps deep in forests and caves until sundown. Platinum It checks its surroundings and location using reflections of the ultrasonic waves from its mouth. HeartGold While flying, it constantly emits ultrasonic waves from its mouth to check its surroundings. SoulSilver Capable of flying safely in dark places, it emits ultrasonic cries to check for any obstacles. Black White It checks its surroundings and location using reflections of the ultrasonic waves from its mouth. Black 2 White 2 It does not need eyes, because it emits ultrasonic waves to check its surroundings while it flies. X Even though it has no eyes, it can sense obstacles using ultrasonic waves it emits from its mouth. Y It has no eyes. Instead, it relies on its ultrasonic cries for echolocation to flit about in darkness. Omega Ruby Zubat remains quietly unmoving in a dark spot during the bright daylight hours. It does so because prolonged exposure to the sun causes its body to become slightly burned. Alpha Sapphire Zubat avoids sunlight because exposure causes it to become unhealthy. During the daytime, it stays in caves or under the eaves of old houses, sleeping while hanging upside down. Sun It sleeps in caves during the day. It has no eyes, so to check its surroundings while flying, it emits ultrasonic waves. Moon When exposed to sunlight, they suffer burns. The frequency of their ultrasonic waves can differ slightly from colony to colony. 
Golbat		042	Generation 1	Poison Flying 		Bat Pokemon		 Inner Focus Infiltrator  		5′3″ (1.60m) 		121.3 lbs (55.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Once it strikes, it will not stop draining energy from the victim even if it gets too heavy to fly. Yellow It attacks in a stealthy manner, without warning. Its sharp fangs are used to bite and suck blood. Gold However hard its victim's hide may be, it punctures with sharp fangs and gorges itself with blood. Silver It can drink more than 10 ounces of blood at once. If it has too much, it gets heavy and flies clumsily. Crystal When it plunges its fangs into its prey, it instantly draws and gulps down more than ten ounces of blood. Ruby GOLBAT loves to drink the blood of living things. It is particularly active in the pitch black of night. This POKéMON flits around in the night skies, seeking fresh blood. Sapphire GOLBAT bites down on prey with its four fangs and drinks the victim’s blood. It becomes active on inky dark moonless nights, flying around to attack people and POKéMON. FireRed It clamps down on its prey with needle-sharp fangs and drains over 10 ounces of blood in one gulp. LeafGreen Once it bites, it will not stop draining energy from the victim even if it gets too heavy to fly. Emerald Its fangs easily puncture even thick animal hide. It loves to feast on the blood of people and POKéMON. It flits about in darkness and strikes from behind. Diamond It loves the blood of humans and Pokémon. It flies around at night in search of neck veins. Pearl Once it starts sucking blood, it does not stop until it is full. It flies at night in search of prey. Platinum Its sharp fangs puncture the toughest of hides and have small holes for greedily sucking blood. HeartGold However hard its victim’s hide may be, it punctures with sharp fangs and gorges itself with blood. SoulSilver It can drink more than 10 ounces of blood at once. If it has too much, it gets heavy and flies clumsily. Black White Its sharp fangs puncture the toughest of hides and have small holes for greedily sucking blood. Black 2 White 2 Flitting around in the dead of night, it sinks its fangs into its prey and drains a nearly fatal amount of blood. X Once it bites, it will not stop draining energy from the victim even if it gets too heavy to fly. Y Once it starts sucking blood, it does not stop until it is full. It flies at night in search of prey. Omega Ruby Golbat loves to drink the blood of living things. It is particularly active in the pitch black of night. This Pokémon flits around in the night skies, seeking fresh blood. Alpha Sapphire Golbat bites down on prey with its four fangs and drinks the victim’s blood. It becomes active on inky dark moonless nights, flying around to attack people and Pokémon. Sun Its thick fangs are hollow like straws, making them unexpectedly fragile. These fangs are specialized for sucking blood. Moon Sometimes they drink so much blood, they can’t fly anymore. Then they fall to the ground and become food for other Pokémon. 
Oddish		043	Generation 1	Grass Poison 		Weed Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Run Away  			1′8″ (0.51m) 		11.9 lbs (5.4 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue During the day, it keeps its face buried in the ground. At night, it wanders around sowing its seeds. Yellow It may be mistaken for a clump of weeds. If you try to yank it out of the ground, it shrieks horribly. Gold Awakened by moonlight, it roams actively at night. In the day, it stays quietly underground. Silver If exposed to moonlight, it starts to move. It roams far and wide at night to scatter its seeds. Crystal During the day, it stays in the cold underground to avoid the sun. It grows by bathing in moonlight. Ruby During the daytime, ODDISH buries itself in soil to absorb nutrients from the ground using its entire body. The more fertile the soil, the glossier its leaves become. Sapphire ODDISH searches for fertile, nutrient-rich soil, then plants itself. During the daytime, while it is planted, this POKéMON’s feet are thought to change shape and become similar to the roots of trees. FireRed Its scientific name is “Oddium Wanderus.” At night, it is said to walk nearly 1,000 feet on its two roots. LeafGreen During the day, it keeps its face buried in the ground. At night, it wanders around sowing its seeds. Emerald This POKéMON grows by absorbing moonlight. During the daytime, it buries itself in the ground, leaving only its leaves exposed to avoid detection by its enemies. Diamond Pearl Platinum It often plants its root feet in the ground during the day and sows seeds as it walks about at night. HeartGold Awakened by moonlight, it roams actively at night. In the day, it stays quietly underground. SoulSilver If exposed to moonlight, it starts to move. It roams far and wide at night to scatter its seeds. Black White Black 2 White 2 It often plants its root feet in the ground during the day and sows seeds as it walks about at night. X During the day, it stays in the cold underground to avoid the sun. It grows by bathing in moonlight. Y Its scientific name is “Oddium Wanderus.” At night, it is said to walk nearly 1,000 feet on its two roots. Omega Ruby During the daytime, Oddish buries itself in soil to absorb nutrients from the ground using its entire body. The more fertile the soil, the glossier its leaves become. Alpha Sapphire Oddish searches for fertile, nutrient-rich soil, then plants itself. During the daytime, while it is planted, this Pokémon’s feet are thought to change shape and become similar to the roots of trees. 
Gloom		044	Generation 1	Grass Poison 		Weed Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Stench  			2′7″ (0.79m) 		19 lbs (8.6 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue The fluid that oozes from its mouth isn't drool. It is a nectar that is used to attract prey. Yellow Smells incredibly foul! However, around 1 out of 1,000 people enjoy sniffing its nose-bending stink. Gold What appears to be drool is actually sweet honey. It is very sticky and clings stubbornly if touched. Silver It secretes a sticky, drool-like honey. Although sweet, it smells too repulsive to get very close. Crystal The smell from its drool-like syrup and the pollen on its petals is so bad, it may make opponents faint. Ruby GLOOM releases a foul fragrance from the pistil of its flower. When faced with danger, the stench worsens. If this POKéMON is feeling calm and secure, it does not release its usual stinky aroma. Sapphire From its mouth GLOOM drips honey that smells absolutely horrible. Apparently, it loves the horrid stench. It sniffs the noxious fumes and then drools even more of its honey. FireRed Its pistils exude an incredibly foul odor. The horrid stench can cause fainting at a distance of 1.25 miles. LeafGreen The fluid that oozes from its mouth isn’t drool. It is a nectar that is used to attract prey. Emerald A horribly noxious honey drools from its mouth. One whiff of the honey can result in memory loss. Some fans are said to enjoy this overwhelming stink, however. Diamond Pearl Platinum The honey it drools from its mouth smells so atrocious, it can curl noses more than a mile away. HeartGold What appears to be drool is actually sweet honey. It is very sticky and clings stubbornly if touched. SoulSilver It secretes a sticky, drool-like honey. Although sweet, it smells too repulsive to get very close. Black White Black 2 White 2 The honey it drools from its mouth smells so atrocious, it can curl noses more than a mile away. X Smells incredibly foul! However, around one out of a thousand people enjoy sniffing its nose-bending stink. Y The honey it drools from its mouth smells so atrocious, it can curl noses more than a mile away. Omega Ruby Gloom releases a foul fragrance from the pistil of its flower. When faced with danger, the stench worsens. If this Pokémon is feeling calm and secure, it does not release its usual stinky aroma. Alpha Sapphire From its mouth Gloom drips honey that smells absolutely horrible. Apparently, it loves the horrid stench. It sniffs the noxious fumes and then drools even more of its honey. 
Vileplume	045	Generation 1	Grass Poison 		Flower Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Effect Spore  		3′11″ (1.19m) 		41 lbs (18.6 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue The larger its petals, the more toxic pollen it contains. Its big head is heavy and hard to hold up. Yellow Flaps its broad flower petals to scatter its poisonous pollen. The flapping sound is very loud. Gold It has the world's largest petals. With every step, the petals shake out heavy clouds of toxic pollen. Silver The bud bursts into bloom with a bang. It then starts scattering allergenic, poisonous pollen. Crystal By shaking its big petals, it scatters toxic pollen into the air, turning the air yellow. Ruby VILEPLUME’s toxic pollen triggers atrocious allergy attacks. That’s why it is advisable never to approach any attractive flowers in a jungle, however pretty they may be. Sapphire VILEPLUME has the world’s largest petals. They are used to attract prey that are then doused with toxic spores. Once the prey are immobilized, this POKéMON catches and devours them. FireRed Its petals are the largest in the world. It fiendishly scatters allergy-causing pollen from its petals. LeafGreen The larger its petals, the more toxic pollen it contains. Its big head is heavy and hard to hold up. Emerald In seasons when it produces more pollen, the air around a VILEPLUME turns yellow with the powder as it walks. The pollen is highly toxic and causes paralysis. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its petals are the largest in the world. As it walks, it scatters extremely allergenic pollen. HeartGold It has the world’s largest petals. With every step, the petals shake out heavy clouds of toxic pollen. SoulSilver The bud bursts into bloom with a bang. It then starts scattering allergenic, poisonous pollen. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its petals are the largest in the world. As it walks, it scatters extremely allergenic pollen. X The larger its petals, the more toxic pollen it contains. Its big head is heavy and hard to hold up. Y It has the world’s largest petals. With every step, the petals shake out heavy clouds of toxic pollen. Omega Ruby Vileplume’s toxic pollen triggers atrocious allergy attacks. That’s why it is advisable never to approach any attractive flowers in a jungle, however pretty they may be. Alpha Sapphire Vileplume has the world’s largest petals. They are used to attract prey that are then doused with toxic spores. Once the prey are immobilized, this Pokémon catches and devours them. 
Paras		046	Generation 1	Bug Grass 		Mushroom Pokemon	 Dry Skin Effect Spore Damp  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		11.9 lbs (5.4 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Burrows to suck tree roots. The mushrooms on its back grow by drawing nutrients from the bug host. Yellow Burrows under the ground to gnaw on tree roots. The mushrooms on its back absorb most of the nutrition. Gold It is doused with mushroom spores when it is born. As its body grows, mushrooms sprout from its back. Silver As its body grows large, oriental mushrooms named tochukaso start sprouting out of its back. Crystal The tochukaso growing on this POKéMON's back orders it to extract juice from tree trunks. Ruby PARAS has parasitic mushrooms growing on its back called tochukaso. They grow large by drawing nutrients from the BUG POKéMON host. They are highly valued as a medicine for extending life. Sapphire PARAS has parasitic mushrooms growing on its back called tochukaso. They grow large by drawing nutrients from this BUG POKéMON host. They are highly valued as a medicine for extending life. FireRed Growing out of the bug’s back are mushrooms called tochukaso. The mushrooms grow with the bug host. LeafGreen Burrows to suck tree roots. The mushrooms on its back grow by drawing nutrients from the bug host. Emerald A PARAS has parasitic tochukaso mushrooms growing on its back. They grow by drawing nutrients from the host. They are valued as a medicine for long life. Diamond Pearl Platinum Mushrooms named tochukaso grow on its back. They grow along with the host PARAS. HeartGold It is doused with mushroom spores when it is born. As its body grows, mushrooms sprout from its back. SoulSilver As its body grows, large mushrooms named tochukaso start sprouting out of its back. Black White Black 2 White 2 Mushrooms named tochukaso grow on its back. They grow along with the host Paras. X Growing out of the bug’s back are mushrooms called tochukaso. The mushrooms grow with the bug host. Y Burrows under the ground to gnaw on tree roots. The mushrooms on its back absorb most of the nutrition. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Paras has parasitic mushrooms growing on its back called tochukaso. They grow large by drawing nutrients from this Bug Pokémon host. They are highly valued as a medicine for extending life. Sun No matter how much it eats, the mushrooms growing on its back steal away most of the nutrients it consumes. Moon Mushrooms called tochukaso sprout from its back. They can be dried and powdered to make a medicine used to extend life. 
Parasect	047	Generation 1	Bug Grass 		Mushroom Pokemon	 Dry Skin Effect Spore Damp  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		65 lbs (29.5 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue A host-parasite pair in which the parasite mushroom has taken over the host bug. Prefers damp places. Yellow The bug host is drained of energy by the mushrooms on its back. They appear to do all the thinking. Gold It stays mostly in dark, damp places, the preference not of the bug, but of the big mushrooms on its back. Silver The larger the mushroom on its back grows, the stronger the mushroom spores it scatters. Crystal When nothing's left to extract from the bug, the mushrooms on its back leave spores on the bug's egg. Ruby Sapphire PARASECT is known to infest large trees en masse and drain nutrients from the lower trunk and roots. When an infested tree dies, they move onto another tree all at once. FireRed It scatters toxic spores from the mushroom cap. In China, the spores are used as herbal medicine. LeafGreen A host-parasite pair in which the parasite mushroom has taken over the host bug. Prefers damp places. Emerald PARASECT are known to infest the roots of large trees en masse and drain nutrients. When an infested tree dies, they move onto another tree all at once. Diamond Platinum A mushroom grown larger than the host’s body controls PARASECT. It scatters poisonous spores. Pearl It is controlled by a mushroom grown larger than the bug body. It is said to prefer damp places. HeartGold It stays mostly in dark, damp places, the preference not of the bug, but of the big mushroom on its back. SoulSilver The larger the mushroom on its back grows, the stronger the mushroom spores it scatters. Black White Black 2 White 2 A mushroom grown larger than the host’s body controls Parasect. It scatters poisonous spores. X A mushroom grown larger than the host’s body controls Parasect. It scatters poisonous spores. Y The larger the mushroom on its back grows, the stronger the mushroom spores it scatters. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Parasect is known to infest large trees en masse and drain nutrients from the lower trunk and roots. When an infested tree dies, they move onto another tree all at once. Sun The large mushroom on its back controls it. It often fights over territory with Shiinotic. Moon It scatters toxic spores from its mushroom cap. Once harvested, these spores can be steeped and boiled down to prepare herbal medicines. 
Venonat		048	Generation 1	Bug Poison 		Insect Pokemon		 Compound Eyes Tinted Lens Run Away  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		66.1 lbs (30.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Lives in the shadows of tall trees where it eats insects. It is attracted by light at night. Yellow Its large eyes act as radars. In a bright place, you can see that they are clusters of many tiny eyes. Gold Its eyes also function as radar units. It catches and eats small bugs that hide in darkness. Silver Poison oozes from all over its body. It catches and eats small bugs at night that are attracted by light. Crystal The small bugs it eats appear only at night, so it sleeps in a hole in a tree until night falls. Ruby Sapphire VENONAT is said to have evolved with a coat of thin, stiff hair that covers its entire body for protection. It possesses large eyes that never fail to spot even miniscule prey. FireRed Its eyes act as radar, enabling it to be active in darkness. The eyes can also shoot powerful beams. LeafGreen Lives in the shadows of tall trees where it eats bugs. It is attracted by light at night. Emerald Its coat of thin, stiff hair that covers its entire body is said to have evolved for protection. Its large eyes never fail to spot even miniscule prey. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its big eyes are actually clusters of tiny eyes. At night, its kind is drawn by light. HeartGold Its eyes also function as radar units. It catches and eats small bugs that hide in darkness. SoulSilver Poison oozes from all over its body. It catches and eats small bugs at night that are attracted by light. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its big eyes are actually clusters of tiny eyes. At night, its kind is drawn by light. X Its big eyes are actually clusters of tiny eyes. At night, its kind is drawn by light. Y Lives in the shadows of tall trees where it eats bugs. It is attracted by light at night. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Venonat is said to have evolved with a coat of thin, stiff hair that covers its entire body for protection. It possesses large eyes that never fail to spot even minuscule prey. 
Venomoth	049	Generation 1	Bug Poison 		Poison Moth Pokemon	 Shield Dust Tinted Lens Wonder Skin  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		27.6 lbs (12.5 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue The dust-like scales covering its wings are color coded to indicate the kinds of poison it has. Yellow The powdery scales on its wings are hard to remove. They also contain poison that leaks out on contact. Gold When it attacks, it flaps its large wings violently to scatter its poisonous powder all around. Silver The powder on its wings is poisonous if it is dark in color. If it is light, it causes paralysis. Crystal The scales it scatters will paralyze anyone who touches them, making that person unable to stand. Ruby Sapphire VENOMOTH is nocturnal - it is a POKéMON that only becomes active at night. Its favorite prey are small insects that gather around streetlights, attracted by the light in the darkness. FireRed The wings are covered with dustlike scales. Every time it flaps its wings, it looses highly toxic dust. LeafGreen The dustlike scales covering its wings are color-coded to indicate the kinds of poison it has. Emerald VENOMOTH are nocturnal--they only are active at night. Their favorite prey are insects that gather around streetlights, attracted by the light in the darkness. Diamond Pearl Platinum It flutters its wings to scatter dustlike scales. The scales leach toxins if they contact skin. HeartGold When it attacks, it flaps its large wings violently to scatter its poisonous powder all around. SoulSilver The powder on its wings is poisonous if it is dark in hue. If it is light in hue, it causes paralysis. Black White Black 2 White 2 It flutters its wings to scatter dustlike scales. The scales leach toxins if they contact skin. X The scales it scatters will paralyze anyone who touches them, making that person unable to stand. Y The wings are covered with dustlike scales. Every time it flaps its wings, it looses highly toxic dust. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Venomoth is nocturnal—it is a Pokémon that only becomes active at night. Its favorite prey are small insects that gather around streetlights, attracted by the light in the darkness. 
Diglett		050	Generation 1	Ground 			Mole Pokemon		 Arena Trap Sand Veil Sand Force  	0′8″ (0.20m) 		1.8 lbs (0.8 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Lives about one yard underground where it feeds on plant roots. It sometimes appears above ground. Yellow It prefers dark places. It spends most of its time underground, though it may pop up in caves. Gold Its skin is very thin. If it is exposed to light, its blood heats up, causing it to grow weak. Silver If a DIGLETT DIGS through a field, it leaves the soil perfectly tilled and ideal for planting crops. Crystal It digs underground and chews on tree roots, sticking its head out only when the sun isn't bright. Ruby Sapphire DIGLETT are raised in most farms. The reason is simple - wherever this POKéMON burrows, the soil is left perfectly tilled for planting crops. This soil is made ideal for growing delicious vegetables. FireRed It burrows through the ground at a shallow depth. It leaves raised earth in its wake, making it easy to spot. LeafGreen Lives about one yard underground where it feeds on plant roots. It sometimes appears aboveground. Emerald DIGLETT are raised in most farms. The reason is simple--wherever they burrow, the soil is left perfectly tilled for growing delicious crops. Diamond Pearl Platinum A Pokémon that lives underground. Because of its dark habitat, it is repelled by bright sunlight. HeartGold Its skin is very thin. If it is exposed to light, its blood heats up, causing it to grow weak. SoulSilver If a DIGLETT digs through a field, it leaves the soil perfectly tilled and ideal for planting crops. Black White Black 2 White 2 A Pokémon that lives underground. Because of its dark habitat, it is repelled by bright sunlight. X Lives about one yard underground where it feeds on plant roots. It sometimes appears aboveground. Y Its skin is very thin. If it is exposed to light, its blood heats up, causing it to grow weak. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Diglett are raised in most farms. The reason is simple— wherever this Pokémon burrows, the soil is left perfectly tilled for planting crops. This soil is made ideal for growing delicious vegetables. Sun It chews on plant roots underground. Farmers whose vegetables are vulnerable find it can be quite a pest. Moon Many farmers cherish and nurture Diglett because its droppings enrich the soil it lives in. 
Dugtrio		051	Generation 1	Ground 			Mole Pokemon		 Arena Trap Sand Veil Sand Force  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		73.4 lbs (33.3 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue A team of DIGLETT triplets. It triggers huge earthquakes by burrowing 60 miles underground. Yellow A team of triplets that can burrow over 60 MPH. Due to this, some people think it's an earthquake. Gold Its three heads bob separately up and down to loosen the soil nearby, making it easier for it to burrow. Silver Extremely powerful, they can DIG through even the hardest ground to a depth of over 60 miles. Crystal These DIGLETT triplets dig over 60 miles below sea level. No one knows what it's like underground. Ruby Sapphire DUGTRIO are actually triplets that emerged from one body. As a result, each triplet thinks exactly like the other two triplets. They work cooperatively to burrow endlessly. FireRed In battle, it digs through the ground and strikes the unsuspecting foe from an unexpected direction. LeafGreen A team of DIGLETT triplets. It triggers huge earthquakes by burrowing 60 miles underground. Emerald Because the triplets originally split from one body, they think exactly alike. They work cooperatively to burrow endlessly through the ground. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its three heads move alternately, driving it through tough soil to depths of over 60 miles. HeartGold Its three heads bob separately up and down to loosen the soil nearby, making it easier for it to burrow. SoulSilver Extremely powerful, they can dig through even the hardest ground to a depth of over 60 miles. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its three heads move alternately, driving it through tough soil to depths of over 60 miles. X In battle, it digs through the ground and strikes the unsuspecting foe from an unexpected direction. Y Extremely powerful, they can dig through even the hardest ground to a depth of over 60 miles. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Dugtrio are actually triplets that emerged from one body. As a result, each triplet thinks exactly like the other two triplets. They work cooperatively to burrow endlessly. Sun This set of triplets moves cooperatively. It’s the power of teamwork that enables this Pokémon to dig to a depth of 60 miles. Moon Despite the closeness between this Pokémon and farmers and other people, no one has ever seen the parts of it concealed underground. 
Meowth		052	Generation 1	Normal 			Scratch Cat Pokemon	 Pickup Technician Unnerve  		1′4″ (0.41m) 		9.3 lbs (4.2 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Adores circular objects. Wanders the streets on a nightly basis to look for dropped loose change. Yellow Appears to be more active at night. It loves round and shiny things. It can't stop from picking them up. Gold It is fascinated by round objects. It can't stop playing with them until it tires and falls asleep. Silver It loves anything that shines. It especially adores coins that it picks up and secretly hoards. Crystal It loves things that sparkle. When it sees a shiny object, the gold coin on its head shines too. Ruby Sapphire MEOWTH withdraws its sharp claws into its paws to slinkily sneak about without making any incriminating footsteps. For some reason, this POKéMON loves shiny coins that glitter with light. FireRed All it does is sleep during the daytime. At night, it patrols its territory with its eyes aglow. LeafGreen Adores round objects. It wanders the streets on a nightly basis to look for dropped loose change. Emerald MEOWTH withdraw their sharp claws into their paws to silently sneak about. For some reason, this POKéMON loves shiny coins that glitter with light. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is nocturnal in nature. If it spots something shiny, its eyes glitter brightly. HeartGold It is fascinated by round objects. It can’t stop playing with them until it tires and falls asleep. SoulSilver It loves anything that shines. It especially adores coins that it picks up and secretly hoards. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is nocturnal in nature. If it spots something shiny, its eyes glitter brightly. X It is nocturnal in nature. If it spots something shiny, its eyes glitter brightly. Y Adores round objects. It wanders the streets on a nightly basis to look for dropped loose change. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Meowth withdraws its sharp claws into its paws to slinkily sneak about without making any incriminating footsteps. For some reason, this Pokémon loves shiny coins that glitter with light. Sun It lies around all day, becoming active near dusk. At night, it wanders the city in search of loose change. Moon It loves shiny things. It often fights with Murkrow over prey they’re both trying to catch. 
Persian		053	Generation 1	Normal 			Classy Cat Pokemon	 Limber Technician Unnerve  		3′3″ (0.99m) 		70.5 lbs (32.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Although its fur has many admirers, it is tough to raise as a pet because of its fickle meanness. Yellow The gem in its forehead glows on its own! It walks with all the grace and elegance of a proud queen. Gold Many adore it for its sophisticated air. However, it will lash out and scratch for little reason. Silver Its lithe muscles allow it to walk without making a sound. It attacks in an instant. Crystal Behind its lithe, elegant appearance lies a barbaric side. It will tear apart its prey on a mere whim. Ruby Sapphire PERSIAN has six bold whiskers that give it a look of toughness. The whiskers sense air movements to determine what is in the POKéMON’s surrounding vicinity. It becomes docile if grabbed by the whiskers. FireRed Has a vicious temperament. Beware if it raises its tail straight up. It is a signal that it is about to pounce and bite. LeafGreen Although its fur has many admirers, it is tough to raise as a pet because of its fickle meanness. Emerald A PERSIAN’s six bold whiskers sense air movements to determine what is in its vicinity. It becomes docile if grabbed by the whiskers. Diamond Pearl Platinum A very haughty Pokémon. Among fans, the size of the jewel in its forehead is a topic of much talk. HeartGold Many adore it for its sophisticated air. However, it will lash out and scratch for little reason. SoulSilver Its lithe muscles allow it to walk without making a sound. It attacks in an instant. Black White Black 2 White 2 A very haughty Pokémon. Among fans, the size of the jewel in its forehead is a topic of much talk. X Although its fur has many admirers, it is tough to raise as a pet because of its fickle meanness. Y Its lithe muscles allow it to walk without making a sound. It attacks in an instant. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Persian has six bold whiskers that give it a look of toughness. The whiskers sense air movements to determine what is in the Pokémon’s surrounding vicinity. It becomes docile if grabbed by the whiskers. Sun It has a violent temperament. It will attack anything that looks it in the eye. Its sharp claws inflict deep wounds. Moon It has a high opinion of itself, although not to the same extent as the Alolan Persian. It’s quite difficult to make friends with this Pokémon. 
Psyduck		054	Generation 1	Water 			Duck Pokemon		 Cloud Nine Damp Swift Swim  	2′7″ (0.79m) 		43.2 lbs (19.6 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue While lulling its enemies with its vacant look, this wily POKéMON will use psychokinetic powers. Yellow Always tormented by headaches. It uses psychic powers, but it is not known if it intends to do so. Gold It has mystical powers but doesn't recall that it has used them. That is why it always looks puzzled. Silver If its chronic headache peaks, it may exhibit odd powers. It seems unable to recall such an episode. Crystal The only time it can use its psychic power is when its sleeping brain cells happen to wake. Ruby PSYDUCK uses a mysterious power. When it does so, this POKéMON generates brain waves that are supposedly only seen in sleepers. This discovery spurred controversy among scholars. Sapphire If it uses its mysterious power, PSYDUCK can’t remember having done so. It apparently can’t form a memory of such an event because it goes into an altered state that is much like deep sleep. FireRed It is constantly wracked by a headache. When the headache turns intense, it begins using mysterious powers. LeafGreen While lulling its enemies with its vacant look, this wily POKéMON will use psychokinetic powers. Emerald When its headache intensifies, it starts using strange powers. However, it has no recollection of its powers, so it always looks befuddled and bewildered. Diamond If its usual headache worsens, it starts exhibiting odd powers. It can’t remember doing so, however. Pearl It never remembers using its odd powers, so it always tilts its head in puzzlement. Platinum Overwhelmed by enigmatic abilities, it suffers a constant headache. It sometimes uses mysterious powers. HeartGold It has mystical powers but doesn’t recall that it has used them. That is why it always looks puzzled. SoulSilver If its chronic headache peaks, it may exhibit odd powers. It seems unable to recall such an episode. Black White Overwhelmed by enigmatic abilities, it suffers a constant headache. It sometimes uses mysterious powers. Black 2 White 2 When headaches stimulate its brain cells, which are usually inactive, it can use a mysterious power. X It is constantly wracked by a headache. When the headache turns intense, it begins using mysterious powers. Y It has mystical powers but doesn’t recall that it has used them. That is why it always looks puzzled. Omega Ruby Psyduck uses a mysterious power. When it does so, this Pokémon generates brain waves that are supposedly only seen in sleepers. This discovery spurred controversy among scholars. Alpha Sapphire If it uses its mysterious power, Psyduck can’t remember having done so. It apparently can’t form a memory of such an event because it goes into an altered state that is much like deep sleep. Sun As a result of headaches so fierce they cause it to cry, it sometimes uses psychokinesis without meaning to. Moon This Pokémon is troubled by constant headaches. The more pain it’s in, the more powerful its psychokinesis becomes. 
Golduck		055	Generation 1	Water 			Duck Pokemon		 Cloud Nine Damp Swift Swim  	5′7″ (1.70m) 		168.9 lbs (76.6 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Often seen swimming elegantly by lake shores. It is often mistaken for the Japanese monster, Kappa. Yellow Its slim and long limbs end in broad flippers. They are used for swimming gracefully in lakes. Gold When it swims at full speed using its long, webbed limbs, its forehead somehow begins to glow. Silver It appears by waterways at dusk. It may use telekinetic powers if its forehead glows mysteriously. Crystal It swims gracefully along on the quiet, slow-moving rivers and lakes of which it is so fond. Ruby The webbed flippers on its forelegs and hind legs and the streamlined body of GOLDUCK give it frightening speed. This POKéMON is definitely much faster than even the most athletic swimmer. Sapphire GOLDUCK is the fastest swimmer among all POKéMON. It swims effortlessly, even in a rough, stormy sea. It sometimes rescues people from wrecked ships floundering in high seas. FireRed The forelegs are webbed, helping to make it an adept swimmer. It can be seen swimming elegantly in lakes, etc. LeafGreen Often seen swimming elegantly by lakeshores. It is often mistaken for the Japanese monster Kappa. Emerald A GOLDUCK is an adept swimmer. It sometimes joins competitive swimmers in training. It uses psychic powers when its forehead shimmers with light. Diamond A Pokémon that lives in lakes. It swims faster than any human swimming champion. Pearl The flippers of its well-developed limbs give it shocking speed. It is the best swimmer among Pokémon. Platinum It is seen swimming dynamically and elegantly using its well-developed limbs and flippers. HeartGold When it swims at full speed using its long, webbed limbs, its forehead somehow begins to glow. SoulSilver It appears by waterways at dusk. It may use telekinetic powers if its forehead glows mysteriously. Black White It is seen swimming dynamically and elegantly using its well-developed limbs and flippers. Black 2 White 2 When its forehead shines mysteriously, Golduck can use the full extent of its power. X It appears by waterways at dusk. It may use telekinetic powers if its forehead glows mysteriously. Y The forelegs are webbed, helping to make it an adept swimmer. It can be seen swimming elegantly in lakes, etc. Omega Ruby The webbed flippers on its forelegs and hind legs and the streamlined body of Golduck give it frightening speed. This Pokémon is definitely much faster than even the most athletic swimmer. Alpha Sapphire Golduck is the fastest swimmer among all Pokémon. It swims effortlessly, even in a rough, stormy sea. It sometimes rescues people from wrecked ships floundering in high seas. Sun It is said that the red part of its forehead grants supernatural powers to those who possess one, so it was over-hunted in the past. Moon It swims along the banks of lakes and catches fish Pokémon. It takes them to the shore and quietly eats them up. 
Mankey		056	Generation 1	Fighting 		Pig Monkey Pokemon	 Anger Point Vital Spirit Defiant  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		61.7 lbs (28.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Extremely quick to anger. It could be docile one moment then thrashing away the next instant. Yellow An agile POKéMON that lives in trees. It angers easily and will not hesitate to attack anything. Gold It is extremely ill-tempered. Groups of them will attack any handy target for no reason. Silver It's unsafe to approach if it gets violently enraged for no reason and can't distinguish friends from foes. Crystal It lives in groups in the treetops. If it loses sight of its group, it becomes infuriated by its loneliness. Ruby Sapphire When MANKEY starts shaking and its nasal breathing turns rough, it’s a sure sign that it is becoming angry. However, because it goes into a towering rage almost instantly, it is impossible for anyone to flee its wrath. FireRed Light and agile on its feet, and ferocious in temperament. When angered, it flies into an uncontrollable frenzy. LeafGreen Extremely quick to anger. It could be docile one moment, then thrashing away the next instant. Emerald When it starts shaking and its nasal breathing turns rough, it’s a sure sign of anger. However, since this happens instantly, there is no time to flee. Diamond Pearl Platinum It lives in treetop colonies. If one becomes enraged, the whole colony rampages for no reason. HeartGold It is extremely ill-tempered. Groups of them will attack any handy target for no reason. SoulSilver It’s unsafe to approach if it gets violently enraged for no reason and can’t distinguish friends from foes. Black White Black 2 White 2 It lives in treetop colonies. If one becomes enraged, the whole colony rampages for no reason. X It’s unsafe to approach if it gets violently enraged for no reason and can’t distinguish friends from foes. Y It lives in treetop colonies. If one becomes enraged, the whole colony rampages for no reason. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire When Mankey starts shaking and its nasal breathing turns rough, it’s a sure sign that it is becoming angry. However, because it goes into a towering rage almost instantly, it is impossible for anyone to flee its wrath. Sun It can spontaneously become enraged. Everyone near it clears out as it rampages, and the resulting loneliness makes it angrier still. Moon Its raging tires it out and causes it to fall asleep, but the anger resonating in its dreams causes it to wake up—which infuriates it all over again. 
Primeape	057	Generation 1	Fighting 		Pig Monkey Pokemon	 Anger Point Vital Spirit Defiant  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		70.5 lbs (32.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Always furious and tenacious to boot. It will not abandon chasing its quarry until it is caught. Yellow It stops being angry only when nobody else is around. To view this moment is very difficult. Gold If approached while asleep, it may awaken and angrily give chase in a groggy state of semi-sleep. Silver It becomes wildly furious if it even senses someone looking at it. It chases anyone that meets its glare. Crystal It will beat up anyone who makes it mad, even if it has to chase them until the end of the world. Ruby Sapphire When PRIMEAPE becomes furious, its blood circulation is boosted. In turn, its muscles are made even stronger. However, it also becomes much less intelligent at the same time. FireRed It is always outrageously furious. If it gives chase, it will tenaciously track the target no matter how far. LeafGreen Always furious and tenacious to boot. It will not abandon chasing its quarry until it catches up. Emerald When it becomes furious, its blood circulation becomes more robust, and its muscles are made stronger. But it also becomes much less intelligent. Diamond Pearl Platinum It grows angry if you see its eyes and gets angrier if you run. If you beat it, it gets even madder. HeartGold If approached while asleep, it may awaken and angrily give chase in a groggy state of semi-sleep. SoulSilver It becomes wildly furious if it even senses someone looking at it. It chases anyone that meets its glare. Black White Black 2 White 2 It grows angry if you see its eyes and gets angrier if you run. If you beat it, it gets even madder. X It stops being angry only when nobody else is around. To view this moment is very difficult. Y It is always outrageously furious. If it gives chase, it will tenaciously track the target no matter how far. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire When Primeape becomes furious, its blood circulation is boosted. In turn, its muscles are made even stronger. However, it also becomes much less intelligent at the same time. Sun It has been known to become so angry that it dies as a result. Its face looks peaceful in death, however. Moon Some researchers theorize that Primeape remains angry even when inside a Poké Ball. 
Growlithe	058	Generation 1	Fire 			Puppy Pokemon		 Flash Fire Intimidate Justified  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		41.9 lbs (19.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Very protective of its territory. It will bark and bite to repel intruders from its space. Yellow A POKéMON with a friendly nature. However, it will bark fiercely at anything invading its territory. Gold It has a brave and trustworthy nature. It fearlessly stands up to bigger and stronger foes. Silver Extremely loyal, it will fearlessly bark at any opponent to protect its own trainer from harm. Crystal It controls a big territory. If it detects an unknown smell, it roars loudly to force out the intruder. Ruby Sapphire GROWLITHE has a superb sense of smell. Once it smells anything, this POKéMON won’t forget the scent, no matter what. It uses its advanced olfactory sense to determine the emotions of other living things. FireRed Very friendly and faithful to people. It will try to repel enemies by barking and biting. LeafGreen It is very protective of its territory. It will bark and bite to repel intruders from its space. Emerald Its superb sense of smell ensures that this POKéMON won’t forget any scent, no matter what. It uses its sense of smell to detect the emotions of others. Diamond Pearl Platinum A Pokémon with a loyal nature. It will remain motionless until it is given an order by its Trainer. HeartGold It has a brave and trustworthy nature. It fearlessly stands up to bigger and stronger foes. SoulSilver Extremely loyal, it will fearlessly bark at any opponent to protect its own Trainer from harm. Black White A Pokémon with a loyal nature. It will remain motionless until it is given an order by its Trainer. Black 2 White 2 Extremely loyal to its Trainer, it will bark at those who approach the Trainer unexpectedly and run them out of town. X Very friendly and faithful to people. It will try to repel enemies by barking and biting. Y It has a brave and trustworthy nature. It fearlessly stands up to bigger and stronger foes. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Growlithe has a superb sense of smell. Once it smells anything, this Pokémon won’t forget the scent, no matter what. It uses its advanced olfactory sense to determine the emotions of other living things. Sun It’s both clever and loyal, but if a stranger tries to invade its territory, it barks threateningly. Moon It looks cute, but when you approach another Trainer’s Growlithe, it will bark at you and bite. 
Arcanine	059	Generation 1	Fire 			Legendary Pokemon	 Flash Fire Intimidate Justified  	6′3″ (1.91m) 		341.7 lbs (155.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue A POKéMON that has been admired since the past for its beauty. It runs agilely as if on wings. Yellow A legendary POKéMON in China. Many people are charmed by its grace and beauty while running. Gold This legendary Chinese POKEMON is considered magnificent. Many people are enchanted by its grand mane. Silver Its magnificent bark conveys a sense of majesty. Anyone hearing it can't help but grovel before it. Crystal An ancient picture scroll shows that people were attracted to its movement as it ran through prairies. Ruby Sapphire ARCANINE is known for its high speed. It is said to be capable of running over 6,200 miles in a single day and night. The fire that blazes wildly within this POKéMON’s body is its source of power. FireRed A POKéMON that is described in Chinese legends. It is said to race at an unbelievable speed. LeafGreen A POKéMON that has long been admired for its beauty. It runs agilely as if on wings. Emerald This fleet-footed POKéMON is said to run over 6,200 miles in a single day and night. The fire that blazes wildly within its body is its source of power. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its proud and regal appearance has captured the hearts of people since long ago. HeartGold This legendary Chinese Pokémon is considered magnificent. Many people are enchanted by its grand mane. SoulSilver Its magnificent bark conveys a sense of majesty. Anyone hearing it can’t help but grovel before it. Black White Its proud and regal appearance has captured the hearts of people since long ago. Black 2 White 2 The sight of it running over 6,200 miles in a single day and night has captivated many people. X A Pokémon that has long been admired for its beauty. It runs agilely as if on wings. Y Its magnificent bark conveys a sense of majesty. Anyone hearing it can’t help but grovel before it. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Arcanine is known for its high speed. It is said to be capable of running over 6,200 miles in a single day and night. The fire that blazes wildly within this Pokémon’s body is its source of power. Sun Overflowing with beauty and majesty, this strong Pokémon appears in ancient Eastern folklore. Moon The fire burning inside its body serves as the energy to fuel it as it runs great distances. It appears in many legends. 
Poliwag		060	Generation 1	Water 			Tadpole Pokemon		 Damp Water Absorb Swift Swim  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		27.3 lbs (12.4 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Its newly grown legs prevent it from running. It appears to prefer swimming than trying to stand. Yellow The direction of the spiral on the belly differs by area. It is more adept at swimming than walking. Gold Because it is inept at walking on its newly grown legs, it always swims around in water. Silver The direction of its belly spiral differs by area. The equator is thought to have an effect on this. Crystal The swirl on its belly is its insides showing through the skin. It looks clearer after it eats. Ruby Sapphire POLIWAG has a very thin skin. It is possible to see the POKéMON’s spiral innards right through the skin. Despite its thinness, however, the skin is also very flexible. Even sharp fangs bounce right off it. FireRed Its slick black skin is thin and damp. A part of its internal organs can be seen through the skin as a spiral pattern. LeafGreen Its newly grown legs prevent it from walking well. It appears to prefer swimming over walking. Emerald It is possible to see this POKéMON’s spiral innards right through its thin skin. However, the skin is also very flexible. Even sharp fangs bounce right off it. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its skin is so thin, its internal organs are visible. It has trouble walking on its newly grown feet. HeartGold Because it is inept at walking on its newly grown legs, it always swims around in water. SoulSilver The direction of its belly spiral differs by area. The equator is thought to have an effect on this. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its skin is so thin, its internal organs are visible. It has trouble walking on its newly grown feet. X Its slick black skin is thin and damp. A part of its internal organs can be seen through the skin as a spiral pattern. Y The direction of the spiral on the belly differs by area. It is more adept at swimming than walking. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Poliwag has a very thin skin. It is possible to see the Pokémon’s spiral innards right through the skin. Despite its thinness, however, the skin is also very flexible. Even sharp fangs bounce right off it. Sun The swirl on its belly is its internal organs showing through. If the swirl is tinged white, that means it’s affected by some disease. Moon It’s still not very good at walking. Its Trainers should train this Pokémon to walk every day. 
Poliwhirl	061	Generation 1	Water 			Tadpole Pokemon		 Damp Water Absorb Swift Swim  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		44.1 lbs (20.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Capable of living in or out of water. When out of water, it sweats to keep its body slimy. Yellow Under attack, it uses its belly spiral to put the foe to sleep. It then makes its escape. Gold The swirl on its belly subtly undulates. Staring at it may gradually cause drowsiness. Silver The skin on most of its body is moist. However, the skin on its belly spiral feels smooth. Crystal Though it is skilled at walking, it prefers to live underwater where there is less danger. Ruby Sapphire The surface of POLIWHIRL’s body is always wet and slick with an oily fluid. Because of this greasy covering, it can easily slip and slide out of the clutches of any enemy in battle. FireRed Its two legs are well developed. Even though it can live on the ground, it prefers living in water. LeafGreen It can live in or out of water. When out of water, it constantly sweats to keep its body slimy. Emerald Its body surface is always wet and slick with an oily fluid. Because of this greasy covering, it can easily slip and slide out of the clutches of any enemy in battle. Diamond Pearl Platinum The spiral pattern on its belly subtly undulates. Staring at it gradually causes drowsiness. HeartGold The swirl on its belly subtly undulates. Staring at it may gradually cause drowsiness. SoulSilver The skin on most of its body is moist. However, the skin on its belly spiral feels smooth. Black White Black 2 White 2 The spiral pattern on its belly subtly undulates. Staring at it gradually causes drowsiness. X It can live in or out of water. When out of water, it constantly sweats to keep its body slimy. Y Its two legs are well developed. Even though it can live on the ground, it prefers living in water. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire The surface of Poliwhirl’s body is always wet and slick with a slimy fluid. Because of this slippery covering, it can easily slip and slide out of the clutches of any enemy in battle. Sun Although it can live on land, it prefers to stay in the water, where it has fewer natural enemies. Moon It marches over the land in search of bug Pokémon to eat. Then it takes them underwater so it can dine on them where it’s safe. 
Poliwrath	062	Generation 1	Water Fighting 		Tadpole Pokemon		 Damp Water Absorb Swift Swim  	4′3″ (1.30m) 		119 lbs (54.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue An adept swimmer at both the front crawl and breast stroke. Easily overtakes the best human swimmers. Yellow Swims powerfully using all the muscles in its body. It can even overtake champion swimmers. Gold This strong and skilled swimmer is even capable of crossing the Pacific Ocean just by kicking. Silver Although an energetic, skilled swimmer that uses all of its muscles, it lives on dry land. Crystal It can use its well-developed arms and legs to run on the surface of the water for a split second. Ruby Sapphire POLIWRATH’s highly developed, brawny muscles never grow fatigued, however much it exercises. It is so tirelessly strong, this POKéMON can swim back and forth across the Pacific Ocean without effort. FireRed An adept swimmer, it knows the front crawl, butterfly, and more. It is faster than the best human swimmers. LeafGreen A swimmer adept at both the front crawl and breaststroke. Easily overtakes the best human swimmers. Emerald Its highly developed muscles never grow fatigued, however much it exercises. This POKéMON can swim back and forth across the Pacific Ocean without effort. Diamond Pearl Platinum With its extremely tough muscles, it can keep swimming in the Pacific Ocean without resting. HeartGold This strong and skilled swimmer is even capable of crossing the Pacific Ocean just by kicking. SoulSilver Although an energetic, skilled swimmer that uses all of its muscles, it lives on dry land. Black White Black 2 White 2 With its extremely tough muscles, it can keep swimming in the Pacific Ocean without resting. X With its extremely tough muscles, it can keep swimming in the Pacific Ocean without resting. Y A swimmer adept at both the front crawl and breaststroke. Easily overtakes the best human swimmers. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Poliwrath’s highly developed, brawny muscles never grow fatigued, however much it exercises. It is so tirelessly strong, this Pokémon can swim back and forth across the ocean without effort. Sun Poliwrath in the Alola region are strong swimmers that use the breaststroke. Many children learn to swim by imitating Poliwrath. Moon Its percentage of body fat is nearly zero. Its body is entirely muscle, which makes it heavy and forces its swimming prowess to develop. 
Abra		063	Generation 1	Psychic 		Psi Pokemon		 Inner Focus Synchronize Magic Guard  	2′11″ (0.89m) 		43 lbs (19.5 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Using its ability to read minds, it will identify impending danger and TELEPORT to safety. Yellow Sleeps 18 hours a day. If it senses danger, it will teleport itself to safety even as it sleeps. Gold It senses impending attacks and TELEPORTS away to safety before the actual attacks can strike. Silver If it decides to TELEPORT randomly, it creates the illusion that it has created copies of itself. Crystal It hypnotizes itself so that it can teleport away when it senses danger, even if it is asleep. Ruby ABRA sleeps for eighteen hours a day. However, it can sense the presence of foes even while it is sleeping. In such a situation, this POKéMON immediately teleports to safety. Sapphire ABRA needs to sleep for eighteen hours a day. If it doesn’t, this POKéMON loses its ability to use telekinetic powers. If it is attacked, ABRA escapes using TELEPORT while it is still sleeping. FireRed It sleeps for 18 hours a day. It uses a variety of extrasensory powers even while asleep. LeafGreen Using its ability to read minds, it will sense impending danger and TELEPORT to safety. Emerald A POKéMON that sleeps 18 hours a day. Observation revealed that it uses TELEPORT to change its location once every hour. Diamond It sleeps for 18 hours a day. Even when awake, it teleports itself while remaining seated. Pearl Even while asleep, it maintains a telepathic radar. It teleports when it is threatened. Platinum Using its psychic power is such a strain on its brain that it needs to sleep for 18 hours a day. HeartGold It senses impending attacks and teleports away to safety before the actual attacks can strike. SoulSilver If it decides to teleport randomly, it evokes the illusion that it has created copies of itself. Black White Black 2 White 2 Using its psychic power is such a strain on its brain that it needs to sleep for 18 hours a day. X It sleeps for 18 hours a day. It uses a variety of extrasensory powers even while asleep. Y It senses impending attacks and teleports away to safety before the actual attacks can strike. Omega Ruby Abra sleeps for eighteen hours a day. However, it can sense the presence of foes even while it is sleeping. In such a situation, this Pokémon immediately teleports to safety. Alpha Sapphire Abra needs to sleep for eighteen hours a day. If it doesn’t, this Pokémon loses its ability to use telekinetic powers. If it is attacked, Abra escapes using Teleport while it is still sleeping. Sun It sleeps 18 hours a day. Even while sleeping, it will teleport itself to treetops and pick and eat berries there. Moon It can teleport itself to safety while it’s asleep, but when it wakes, it doesn’t know where it is, so it panics. 
Kadabra		064	Generation 1	Psychic 		Psi Pokemon		 Inner Focus Synchronize Magic Guard  	4′3″ (1.30m) 		124.6 lbs (56.5 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue It emits special alpha waves from its body that induce headaches just by being close by. Yellow Many odd things happen if this POKéMON is close by. For example, it makes clocks run backwards. Gold It possesses strong spiritual power. The more danger it faces, the stronger its psychic power. Silver If it uses its abilities, it emits special alpha waves that cause machines to malfunction. Crystal When it closes its eyes, twice as many alpha particles come out of the surface of its body. Ruby KADABRA emits a peculiar alpha wave if it develops a headache. Only those people with a particularly strong psyche can hope to become a TRAINER of this POKéMON. Sapphire KADABRA holds a silver spoon in its hand. The spoon is used to amplify the alpha waves in its brain. Without the spoon, the POKéMON is said to be limited to half the usual amount of its telekinetic powers. FireRed It happened one morning - a boy with extrasensory powers awoke in bed transformed into KADABRA. LeafGreen It emits special alpha waves from its body that induce headaches just by being close. Emerald It is rumored that a boy with psychic abilities suddenly transformed into KADABRA while he was assisting research into extrasensory powers. Diamond If one is nearby, an eerie shadow appears on TV screens. Seeing the shadow is said to bring bad luck. Pearl When it uses its psychic power, it emits strong ha waves that can ruin precision devices. Platinum It stares at its silver spoon to focus its mind. It emits more alpha waves while doing so. HeartGold It possesses strong spiritual power. The more danger it faces, the stronger its psychic power. SoulSilver If it uses its abilities, it emits special alpha waves that cause machines to malfunction. Black White Black 2 White 2 It stares at its silver spoon to focus its mind. It emits more alpha waves while doing so. X When it uses its psychic power, it emits strong alpha waves that can ruin precision devices. Y If it uses its abilities, it emits special alpha waves that cause machines to malfunction. Omega Ruby Kadabra emits a peculiar alpha wave if it develops a headache. Only those people with a particularly strong psyche can hope to become a Trainer of this Pokémon. Alpha Sapphire Kadabra holds a silver spoon in its hand. The spoon is used to amplify the alpha waves in its brain. Without the spoon, the Pokémon is said to be limited to half the usual amount of its telekinetic powers. Sun A theory exists that this Pokémon was a young boy who couldn’t control his psychic powers and ended up transformed into this Pokémon. Moon Kadabra’s presence infests televisions and monitors with creepy shadows that bring bad luck. 
Alakazam	065	Generation 1	Psychic 		Psi Pokemon		 Inner Focus Synchronize Magic Guard  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		105.8 lbs (48.0 kg) 		Second stage
Red Blue Its brain can outperform a supercomputer. Its intelligence quotient is said to be 5,000. Yellow A POKéMON that can memorize anything. It never forgets what it learns--that's why this POKéMON is smart. Gold Closing both its eyes heightens all its other senses. This enables it to use its abilities to their extremes. Silver Its brain cells multiply continually until it dies. As a result, it remembers everything. Crystal It has an IQ of 5000. It calculates many things in order to gain the edge in every battle. Ruby ALAKAZAM’s brain continually grows, making its head far too heavy to support with its neck. This POKéMON holds its head up using its psychokinetic power instead. Sapphire ALAKAZAM’s brain continually grows, infinitely multiplying brain cells. This amazing brain gives this POKéMON an astoundingly high IQ of 5,000. It has a thorough memory of everything that has occurred in the world. FireRed It does not like physical attacks very much. Instead, it freely uses extrasensory powers to defeat foes. LeafGreen Its brain can outperform a supercomputer. Its IQ (intelligence quotient) is said to be around 5,000. Emerald While it has strong psychic abilities and high intelligence, an ALAKAZAM’s muscles are very weak. It uses psychic power to move its body. Diamond Its superb memory lets it recall everything it has experienced from birth. Its IQ exceeds 5,000. Pearl Its highly developed brain is on par with a supercomputer. It can use all forms of psychic abilities. Platinum The spoons clutched in its hands are said to have been created by its psychic powers. HeartGold Closing both its eyes heightens all its other senses. This enables it to use its abilities to their extremes. SoulSilver Its brain cells multiply continually until it dies. As a result, it remembers everything. Black White Black 2 White 2 The spoons clutched in its hands are said to have been created by its psychic powers. X Its brain cells multiply continually until it dies. As a result, it remembers everything. Y Its brain can outperform a supercomputer. Its IQ (intelligence quotient) is said to be around 5,000. Omega Ruby Alakazam’s brain continually grows, making its head far too heavy to support with its neck. This Pokémon holds its head up using its psychokinetic power instead. Alpha Sapphire Alakazam’s brain continually grows, infinitely multiplying brain cells. This amazing brain gives this Pokémon an astoundingly high IQ of 5,000. It has a thorough memory of everything that has occurred in the world. Sun It is said to have an IQ of approximately 5,000. Its overflowing psychokinetic powers cause headaches to anyone nearby. Moon Its brain cells continue to increase in number until its death. The older the Alakazam, the larger its head. 
Machop		066	Generation 1	Fighting 		Superpower Pokemon	 Guts No Guard Steadfast  		2′7″ (0.79m) 		43 lbs (19.5 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Loves to build its muscles. It trains in all styles of martial arts to become even stronger. Yellow Very powerful in spite of its small size. Its mastery of many types of martial arts makes it very tough. Gold Always brimming with power, it passes time by lifting boulders. Doing so makes it even stronger. Silver It loves to work out and build its muscles. It is never satisfied, even if it trains hard all day long. Crystal It trains by lifting rocks in the mountains. It can even pick up a GRAVELER with ease. Ruby MACHOP’s muscles are special - they never get sore no matter how much they are used in exercise. This POKéMON has sufficient power to hurl a hundred adult humans. Sapphire MACHOP exercises by hefting around a GRAVELER as if it were a barbell. There are some MACHOP that travel the world in a quest to master all kinds of martial arts. FireRed Its whole body is composed of muscles. Even though it’s the size of a human child, it can hurl 100 grown-ups. LeafGreen Loves to build its muscles. It trains in all styles of martial arts to become even stronger. Emerald It continually undertakes strenuous training to master all forms of martial arts. Its strength lets it easily hoist a sumo wrestler onto its shoulders. Diamond It hefts a GRAVELER repeatedly to strengthen its entire body. It uses every type of martial arts. Pearl Its muscles never cramp however much it trains. It lives in the mountains away from humans. Platinum Though small in stature, it is powerful enough to easily heft and throw a number of GEODUDE at once. HeartGold Always brimming with power, it passes time by lifting boulders. Doing so makes it even stronger. SoulSilver It loves to work out and build its muscles. It is never satisfied, even if it trains hard all day long. Black White Black 2 White 2 Though small in stature, it is powerful enough to easily heft and throw a number of Geodude at once. X It hefts a Graveler repeatedly to strengthen its entire body. It uses every type of martial arts. Y Its whole body is composed of muscles. Even though it’s the size of a human child, it can hurl 100 grown-ups. Omega Ruby Machop’s muscles are special—they never get sore no matter how much they are used in exercise. This Pokémon has sufficient power to hurl a hundred adult humans. Alpha Sapphire Machop exercises by hefting around a Graveler as if it were a barbell. There are some Machop that travel the world in a quest to master all kinds of martial arts. Sun It loves working out. As it gazes at its muscles, which continue to swell day by day, it becomes more and more dedicated to its training. Moon With its superhuman strength, it’s able to throw a hundred people all at the same time. Its strength comes from lifting Graveler every day. 
Machoke		067	Generation 1	Fighting 		Superpower Pokemon	 Guts No Guard Steadfast  		4′11″ (1.50m) 		155.4 lbs (70.5 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Its muscular body is so powerful, it must wear a power save belt to be able to regulate its motions. Yellow The belt around its waist holds back its energy. Without it, this POKéMON would be unstoppable. Gold It always goes at its full power, but this very tough and durable POKéMON never gets tired. Silver The muscles covering its body teem with power. Even when still, it exudes an amazing sense of strength. Crystal This tough POKéMON always stays in the zone. Its muscles become thicker after every battle. Ruby MACHOKE’s thoroughly toned muscles possess the hardness of steel. This POKéMON has so much strength, it can easily hold aloft a sumo wrestler on just one finger. Sapphire MACHOKE undertakes bodybuilding every day even as it helps people with tough, physically demanding labor. On its days off, this POKéMON heads to the fields and mountains to exercise and train. FireRed Its formidable body never gets tired. It helps people by doing work such as the moving of heavy goods. LeafGreen Its muscular body is so powerful, it must wear a power-save belt to be able to regulate its motions. Emerald A belt is worn by a MACHOKE to keep its overwhelming power under control. Because it is so dangerous, no one has ever removed the belt. Diamond MACHOKE’s boundless power is very dangerous, so it wears a belt that suppresses its energy. Pearl It can lift a dump truck with one hand. Using that power, it helps people with heavy jobs. Platinum It happily carries heavy cargo to toughen up. It willingly does hard work for people. HeartGold It always goes at its full power, but this very tough and durable Pokémon never gets tired. SoulSilver The muscles covering its body teem with power. Even when still, it exudes an amazing sense of strength. Black White Black 2 White 2 It happily carries heavy cargo to toughen up. It willingly does hard work for people. X Its muscular body is so powerful, it must wear a power-save belt to be able to regulate its motions. Y It can lift a dump truck with one hand. Using that power, it helps people with heavy jobs. Omega Ruby Machoke’s thoroughly toned muscles possess the hardness of steel. This Pokémon has so much strength, it can easily hold aloft a sumo wrestler on just one finger. Alpha Sapphire Machoke undertakes bodybuilding every day even as it helps people with tough, physically demanding labor. On its days off, this Pokémon heads to the fields and mountains to exercise and train. Sun As a result of its continual workouts, it has developed tremendous power. It uses that power to help people with their work. Moon It willingly assists with hard labor because it knows the work is good training for its muscles. 
Machamp		068	Generation 1	Fighting 		Superpower Pokemon	 Guts No Guard Steadfast  		5′3″ (1.60m) 		286.6 lbs (130.0 kg) 		Second stage
Red Blue Using its heavy muscles, it throws powerful punches that can send the victim clear over the horizon. Yellow One arm alone can move mountains. Using all four arms, this POKéMON fires off awesome punches. Gold It quickly swings its four arms to rock its opponents with ceaseless punches and chops from all angles. Silver It uses its four powerful arms to pin the limbs of its foe, then throws the victim over the horizon. Crystal With four arms that react more quickly than it can think, it can execute many punches at once. Ruby MACHAMP has the power to hurl anything aside. However, trying to do any work requiring care and dexterity causes its arms to get tangled. This POKéMON tends to leap into action before it thinks. Sapphire MACHAMP is known as the POKéMON that has mastered every kind of martial arts. If it grabs hold of the foe with its four arms, the battle is all but over. The hapless foe is thrown far over the horizon. FireRed Its four ruggedly developed arms can launch a flurry of 1,000 punches in just two seconds. LeafGreen Its superpowerful punches are said to knock the victim flying clear over the horizon. Emerald It is impossible to defend against punches and chops doled out by its four arms. Its fighting spirit flares up when it faces a tough opponent. Diamond It punches with its four arms at blinding speed. It can launch 1,000 punches in two seconds. Pearl It can knock a train flying with a punch. However, it is terrible at delicate work using its fingers. Platinum Its four muscled arms slam foes with powerful punches and chops at blinding speed. HeartGold It quickly swings its four arms to rock its opponents with ceaseless punches and chops from all angles. SoulSilver It uses its four powerful arms to pin the limbs of its foe, then throws the victim over the horizon. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its four muscled arms slam foes with powerful punches and chops at blinding speed. X Its four ruggedly developed arms can launch a flurry of 1,000 punches in just two seconds. Y It uses its four powerful arms to pin the limbs of its foe, then throws the victim over the horizon. Omega Ruby Machamp has the power to hurl anything aside. However, trying to do any work requiring care and dexterity causes its arms to get tangled. This Pokémon tends to leap into action before it thinks. Alpha Sapphire Machamp is known as the Pokémon that has mastered every kind of martial arts. If it grabs hold of the foe with its four arms, the battle is all but over. The hapless foe is thrown far over the horizon. Sun It unleashes megaton-level punches that send opponents flying clear over the horizon. Moon It can lift heavy loads with the greatest of ease. It can even heft dump trucks. But its clumsy fingers prevent it from doing any precision work. 
Bellsprout	069	Generation 1	Grass Poison 		Flower Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Gluttony  			2′4″ (0.71m) 		8.8 lbs (4.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue A carnivorous POKéMON that traps and eats bugs. It uses its root feet to soak up needed moisture. Yellow Prefers hot and humid places. It ensnares tiny insects with its vines and devours them. Gold Even though its body is extremely skinny, it is blindingly fast when catching its prey. Silver It plants its feet deep underground to replenish water. It can't escape its enemy while it's rooted. Crystal If it notices anything that moves, it immediately flings its vine at the object. Ruby Sapphire BELLSPROUT’s thin and flexible body lets it bend and sway to avoid any attack, however strong it may be. From its mouth, this POKéMON spits a corrosive fluid that melts even iron. FireRed Its bud looks like a human face. Because of the bud, it is rumored to be a type of legendary mandrake plant. LeafGreen A carnivorous POKéMON that traps and eats bugs. It appears to use its root feet to replenish moisture. Emerald A BELLSPROUT’s thin and flexible body lets it bend and sway to avoid any attack, however strong it may be. From its mouth, it leaks a fluid that melts even iron. Diamond Pearl Platinum It prefers hot and humid environments. It is quick at capturing prey with its vines. HeartGold Even though its body is extremely skinny, it is blindingly fast when catching its prey. SoulSilver It plants its feet deep underground to replenish water. It can’t escape its enemy while it’s rooted. Black White Black 2 White 2 It prefers hot and humid environments. It is quick at capturing prey with its vines. X Even though its body is extremely skinny, it is blindingly fast when catching its prey. Y Its bud looks like a human face. Because of the bud, it is rumored to be a type of legendary mandrake plant. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Bellsprout’s thin and flexible body lets it bend and sway to avoid any attack, however strong it may be. From its mouth, this Pokémon spits a corrosive fluid that melts even iron. 
Weepinbell	070	Generation 1	Grass Poison 		Flycatcher Pokemon	 Chlorophyll Gluttony  			3′3″ (0.99m) 		14.1 lbs (6.4 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue It spits out POISONPOWDER to immobilize the enemy and then finishes it with a spray of ACID. Yellow When hungry, it swallows anything that moves. Its hapless prey is melted inside by strong acids. Gold Even though it is filled with ACID, it does not melt because it also oozes a neutralizing fluid. Silver If its prey is bigger than its mouth, it slices up the victim with sharp leaves, then eats every morsel. Crystal When it's hungry, it swings its razor-sharp leaves, slicing up any unlucky object nearby for food. Ruby Sapphire WEEPINBELL has a large hook on its rear end. At night, the POKéMON hooks on to a tree branch and goes to sleep. If it moves around in its sleep, it may wake up to find itself on the ground. FireRed The leafy parts act as cutters for slashing foes. It spits a fluid that dissolves everything. LeafGreen It spits out POISONPOWDER to immobilize the enemy and then finishes it with a spray of ACID. Emerald At night, a WEEPINBELL hangs on to a tree branch with its hooked rear and sleeps. If it moves around in its sleep, it may wake up to find itself on the ground. Diamond Pearl Platinum A Pokémon that appears to be a plant. It captures unwary prey by dousing them with a toxic powder. HeartGold Even though it is filled with acid, it does not melt because it also oozes a protective fluid. SoulSilver If its prey is bigger than its mouth, it slices up the victim with sharp leaves, then eats every morsel. Black White Black 2 White 2 A Pokémon that appears to be a plant. It captures unwary prey by dousing them with a toxic powder. X The leafy parts act as cutters for slashing foes. It spits a fluid that dissolves everything. Y It spits out Poison Powder to immobilize the enemy and then finishes it with a spray of Acid. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Weepinbell has a large hook on its rear end. At night, the Pokémon hooks on to a tree branch and goes to sleep. If it moves around in its sleep, it may wake up to find itself on the ground. 
Victreebel	071	Generation 1	Grass Poison 		Flycatcher Pokemon	 Chlorophyll Gluttony  			5′7″ (1.70m) 		34.2 lbs (15.5 kg) 		Second stage
Red Blue Said to live in huge colonies deep in jungles, although no one has ever returned from there. Yellow Lures prey with the sweet aroma of honey. Swallowed whole, the prey is melted in a day, bones and all. Gold ACID that has dissolved many prey becomes sweeter, making it even more effective at attracting prey. Silver This horrifying plant POKéMON attracts prey with aromatic honey, then melts them in its mouth. Crystal Once ingested into this POKéMON's body, even the hardest object will melt into nothing. Ruby Sapphire VICTREEBEL has a long vine that extends from its head. This vine is waved and flicked about as if it were an animal to attract prey. When an unsuspecting prey draws near, this POKéMON swallows it whole. FireRed Lures prey into its mouth with a honeylike aroma. The helpless prey is melted with a dissolving fluid. LeafGreen Said to live in huge colonies deep in jungles, although no one has ever returned from there. Emerald The long vine extending from its head is waved about as if it were a living thing to attract prey. When an unsuspecting victim approaches, it is swallowed whole. Diamond Pearl Platinum It pools in its mouth a fluid with a honeylike scent, which is really an acid that dissolves anything. HeartGold Acid that has dissolved many prey becomes sweeter, making it even more effective at attracting prey. SoulSilver This horrifying plant Pokémon attracts prey with aromatic honey, then melts them in its mouth. Black White It pools in its mouth a fluid with a honeylike scent, which is really an acid that dissolves anything. Black 2 White 2 It pools in its mouth a fluid with a honey-like scent, which is really an acid that dissolves anything. X Said to live in huge colonies deep in jungles, although no one has ever returned from there. Y Once ingested into this Pokémon’s body, even the hardest object will melt into nothing. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Victreebel has a long vine that extends from its head. This vine is waved and flicked about as if it were an animal to attract prey. When an unsuspecting prey draws near, this Pokémon swallows it whole. 
Tentacool	072	Generation 1	Water Poison 		Jellyfish Pokemon	 Clear Body Liquid Ooze Rain Dish  	2′11″ (0.89m) 		100.3 lbs (45.5 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Drifts in shallow seas. Anglers who hook them by accident are often punished by its stinging acid. Yellow It can sometimes be found all dry and shriveled up on a beach. Toss it back into the sea to revive it. Gold When the tide goes out, dehydrated TENTACOOL remains can be found washed up on the shore. Silver It drifts aimlessly in waves. Very difficult to see in water, it may not be noticed until it stings. Crystal As it floats along on the waves, it uses its toxic feelers to stab anything it touches. Ruby TENTACOOL’s body is largely composed of water. If it is removed from the sea, it dries up like parchment. If this POKéMON happens to become dehydrated, put it back into the sea. Sapphire TENTACOOL absorbs sunlight and refracts it using water inside its body to convert it into beam energy. This POKéMON shoots beams from its crystal-like eyes. FireRed Its eyes are as transparent as crystals. From them, it shoots mysterious beams of light. LeafGreen Drifts in shallow seas. Anglers who hook them by accident are often punished by their stingers. Emerald Its body is almost entirely composed of water. It ensnares its foe with its two long tentacles, then stabs with the poison stingers at their tips. Diamond Its body is virtually composed of water. It shoots strange beams from its crystal-like eyes. Pearl It drifts in sea currents. Countless fishermen are hurt by its poison stingers. Platinum Because its body is almost entirely composed of water, it shrivels up if it is washed ashore. HeartGold When the tide goes out, dehydrated TENTACOOL remains can be found washed up on the shore. SoulSilver It drifts aimlessly in waves. Very difficult to see in water, it may not be noticed until it stings. Black White Black 2 White 2 Because its body is almost entirely composed of water, it shrivels up if it is washed ashore. X Its body is virtually composed of water. It shoots strange beams from its crystal-like eyes. Y Drifts in shallow seas. Anglers who hook them by accident are often punished by their stingers. Omega Ruby Tentacool’s body is largely composed of water. If it is removed from the sea, it dries up like parchment. If this Pokémon happens to become dehydrated, put it back into the sea. Alpha Sapphire Tentacool absorbs sunlight and refracts it using water inside its body to convert it into beam energy. This Pokémon shoots beams from the small round organ above its eyes. Sun They can be found lying dehydrated on beaches, but they are often still alive. When soaked in water, they will revive. Moon It drifts in shallow seas, such as the areas near beaches. If you get bitten or stabbed by its toxic tentacles, rush to the hospital. 
Tentacruel	073	Generation 1	Water Poison 		Jellyfish Pokemon	 Clear Body Liquid Ooze Rain Dish  	5′3″ (1.60m) 		121.3 lbs (55.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue The tentacles are normally kept short. On hunts, they are extended to ensnare and immobilize prey. Yellow Its 80 tentacles can stretch and contract freely. They wrap around prey and weaken it with poison. Gold Its 80 tentacles absorb water and stretch almost endlessly to CONSTRICT its prey and enemies. Silver In battle, it extends all 80 of its tentacles to entrap its opponent inside a poisonous net. Crystal When its 80 feelers absorb water, it stretches to become like a net to entangle its prey. Ruby TENTACRUEL has large red orbs on its head. The orbs glow before lashing the vicinity with a harsh ultrasonic blast. This POKéMON’s outburst creates rough waves around it. Sapphire TENTACRUEL has tentacles that can be freely elongated and shortened at will. It ensnares prey with its tentacles and weakens the prey by dosing it with a harsh toxin. It can catch up to 80 prey at the same time. FireRed It has 80 tentacles that move about freely. They can sting, causing poisoning and sharp, stabbing pain. LeafGreen The tentacles are normally kept short. On hunts, they are extended to ensnare and immobilize prey. Emerald It lives in complex rock formations on the ocean floor and traps prey using its 80 tentacles. Its red orbs glow when it grows excited or agitated. Diamond With 80 tentacles for ensnaring victims, it prevents escape until the prey is weakened by poison. Pearl It alerts others to danger by stridently flashing the red orbs on its head. Platinum It extends its 80 tentacles to form an encircling poisonous net that is difficult to escape. HeartGold Its 80 tentacles absorb water and stretch almost endlessly to constrict its prey and enemies. SoulSilver In battle, it extends all 80 of its tentacles to entrap its opponent inside a poisonous net. Black White Black 2 White 2 It extends its 80 tentacles to form an encircling poisonous net that is difficult to escape. X The tentacles are normally kept short. On hunts, they are extended to ensnare and immobilize prey. Y It has 80 tentacles that move about freely. They can sting, causing poisoning and sharp, stabbing pain. Omega Ruby Tentacruel has large red orbs on its head. The orbs glow before lashing the vicinity with a harsh ultrasonic blast. This Pokémon’s outburst creates rough waves around it. Alpha Sapphire Tentacruel has tentacles that can be freely elongated and shortened at will. It ensnares prey with its tentacles and weakens the prey by dosing it with a harsh toxin. It can catch up to 80 prey at the same time. Sun Normally, it has 80 poisonous tentacles. The longer one has been alive, the fewer tentacles it will have. Moon Although these Pokémon are rare, when a large outbreak of them occurs, all fish Pokémon disappear from the surrounding sea. 
Geodude		074	Generation 1	Rock Ground 		Rock Pokemon		 Rock Head Sturdy Sand Veil  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		44.1 lbs (20.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Found in fields and mountains. Mistaking them for boulders, people often step or trip on them. Yellow Commonly found near mountain trails, etc. If you step on one by accident, it gets angry. Gold Most people may not notice, but a closer look should reveal that there are many GEODUDE around. Silver It uses its arms to steadily climb steep mountain paths. It swings its fists around if angered. Crystal Proud of their sturdy bodies, they bash against each other in a contest to prove whose is harder. Ruby The longer a GEODUDE lives, the more its edges are chipped and worn away, making it more rounded in appearance. However, this POKéMON’s heart will remain hard, craggy, and rough always. Sapphire When GEODUDE sleeps deeply, it buries itself halfway into the ground. It will not awaken even if hikers step on it unwittingly. In the morning, this POKéMON rolls downhill in search of food. FireRed Its round form makes it easy to pick up. Some people have used them to hurl at each other in a snowball fight. LeafGreen Found in fields and mountains. Mistaking them for boulders, people often step or trip on them. Emerald It climbs mountain paths using only the power of its arms. Because they look just like boulders lining paths, hikers may step on them without noticing. Diamond Many live on mountain trails and remain half buried while keeping an eye on climbers. Pearl It is impossible to distinguish from rocks. It slams against others in contests of hardness. Platinum At rest, it looks just like a rock. Carelessly stepping on it will make it swing its fists angrily. HeartGold Most people may not notice, but a closer look should reveal that there are many GEODUDE around. SoulSilver It uses its arms to steadily climb steep mountain paths. It swings its fists around if angered. Black White Black 2 White 2 At rest, it looks just like a rock. Carelessly stepping on it will make it swing its fists angrily. X Found in fields and mountains. Mistaking them for boulders, people often step or trip on them. Y It is impossible to distinguish from rocks. It slams against others in contests of hardness. Omega Ruby The longer a Geodude lives, the more its edges are chipped and worn away, making it more rounded in appearance. However, this Pokémon’s heart will remain hard, craggy, and rough always. Alpha Sapphire When Geodude sleeps deeply, it buries itself halfway into the ground. It will not awaken even if hikers step on it unwittingly. In the morning, this Pokémon rolls downhill in search of food. Sun Its round body makes it easy to pick up, but it is hard and heavy. It’s dangerous to play with them as if they were snowballs. Moon There are plenty of them to be found along any road. A scholar with too much free time once counted a hundred of them along a single route. 
Graveler	075	Generation 1	Rock Ground 		Rock Pokemon		 Rock Head Sturdy Sand Veil  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		231.5 lbs (105.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Rolls down slopes to move. It rolls over any obstacle without slowing or changing its direction. Yellow Often seen rolling down mountain trails. Obstacles are just things to roll straight over, not avoid. Gold With a free and uncaring nature, it doesn't mind if pieces break off while it rolls down mountains. Silver A slow walker, it rolls to move. It pays no attention to any object that happens to be in its path. Crystal It travels by rolling on mountain paths. If it gains too much speed, it stops by running into huge rocks. Ruby GRAVELER grows by feeding on rocks. Apparently, it prefers to eat rocks that are covered in moss. This POKéMON eats its way through a ton of rocks on a daily basis. Sapphire Rocks are GRAVELER’s favorite food. This POKéMON will climb a mountain from the base to the summit, crunchingly feasting on rocks all the while. Upon reaching the peak, it rolls back down to the bottom. FireRed Be careful while hiking on mountain trails. GRAVELER may come rolling down the path without slowing. LeafGreen Rolls down slopes to move. It rolls over any obstacle without slowing or changing its direction. Emerald They descend from mountains by tumbling down steep slopes. They are so brutal, they smash aside obstructing trees and massive boulders with thunderous tackles. Diamond GRAVELER make their homes on sheer cliff faces by gouging out numerous horizontal holes. Pearl It tumbles down slopes, heedless of any body parts chipping off. It eats a ton of rocks daily. Platinum It rolls on mountain paths to move. Once it builds momentum, no Pokémon can stop it without difficulty. HeartGold With a free and uncaring nature, it doesn’t mind if pieces break off while it rolls down mountains. SoulSilver A slow walker, it rolls to move. It pays no attention to any object that happens to be in its path. Black White Black 2 White 2 It rolls on mountain paths to move. Once it builds momentum, no Pokémon can stop it without difficulty. X With a free and uncaring nature, it doesn’t mind if pieces break off while it rolls down mountains. Y Rolls down slopes to move. It rolls over any obstacle without slowing or changing its direction. Omega Ruby Graveler grows by feeding on rocks. Apparently, it prefers to eat rocks that are covered in moss. This Pokémon eats its way through a ton of rocks on a daily basis. Alpha Sapphire Rocks are Graveler’s favorite food. This Pokémon will climb a mountain from the base to the summit, crunchingly feasting on rocks all the while. Upon reaching the peak, it rolls back down to the bottom. Sun Mossy rocks are its favorite food. It can devour a ton a day while crunching loudly. Moon This slow-footed Pokémon moves by curling up and rolling instead of walking. With enough momentum, its speed can exceed 60 mph. 
Golem		076	Generation 1	Rock Ground 		Megaton Pokemon		 Rock Head Sturdy Sand Veil  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		661.4 lbs (300.0 kg) 		Second stage
Red Blue Its boulder-like body is extremely hard. It can easily withstand dynamite blasts without damage. Yellow Once it sheds its skin, its body turns tender and whitish. Its hide hardens when it's exposed to air. Gold It sheds its skin once a year. The discarded shell immediately hardens and crumbles away. Silver It is capable of blowing itself up. It uses this explosive force to jump from mountain to mountain. Crystal Its rock-like body is so durable, even high-powered dynamite blasts fail to scratch its rugged hide. Ruby GOLEM live up on mountains. If there is a large earthquake, these POKéMON will come rolling down off the mountains en masse to the foothills below. Sapphire GOLEM is known for rolling down from mountains. To prevent them from rolling into the homes of people downhill, grooves have been dug into the sides of mountains to serve as guideways for diverting this POKéMON’s course. FireRed It is enclosed in a hard shell that is as rugged as slabs of rock. It sheds skin once a year to grow larger. LeafGreen Its boulder-like body is extremely hard. It can easily withstand dynamite blasts without taking damage. Emerald It is said to live in volcanic craters on mountain peaks. Once a year, it sheds its hide and grows larger. The shed hide crumbles and returns to the soil. Diamond It sheds its hide once a year. Its boulderlike body is so tough, even dynamite can’t harm it. Pearl It tumbles down mountains, leaving grooves from peak to base. Stay clear of these grooves. Platinum Even dynamite can’t harm its hard, boulderlike body. It sheds its hide just once a year. HeartGold It sheds its skin once a year. The discarded shell immediately hardens and crumbles away. SoulSilver It is capable of blowing itself up. It uses this explosive force to jump from mountain to mountain. Black White Even dynamite can’t harm its hard, boulderlike body. It sheds its hide just once a year. Black 2 White 2 Even dynamite can’t harm its hard, boulder-like body. It sheds its hide just once a year. X It tumbles down mountains, leaving grooves from peak to base. Stay clear of these grooves. Y Even dynamite can’t harm its hard, boulder-like body. It sheds its hide just once a year. Omega Ruby Golem live up on mountains. If there is a large earthquake, these Pokémon will come rolling down off the mountains en masse to the foothills below. Alpha Sapphire Golem is known for rolling down from mountains. To prevent them from rolling into the homes of people downhill, grooves have been dug into the sides of mountains to serve as guideways for diverting this Pokémon’s course. Sun Its body can survive dynamite blasts without a single scratch, but it hates rain and humidity. Moon Once a year, this Pokémon molts, and its shed shell returns to the soil. This process creates enriched soil, so farmers collect the shells. 
Ponyta		077	Generation 1	Fire 			Fire Horse Pokemon	 Flash Fire Run Away Flame Body  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		66.1 lbs (30.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Its hooves are 10 times harder than diamonds. It can trample anything completely flat in little time. Yellow Capable of jumping incredibly high. Its hooves and sturdy legs absorb the impact of a hard landing. Gold It is a weak runner immediately after birth. It gradually becomes faster by chasing after its parents. Silver Its hind legs, which have harder-than-diamond hooves, kick back at any presence it senses behind it. Crystal Training by jumping over grass that grows longer every day has made it a world-class jumper. Ruby Sapphire PONYTA is very weak at birth. It can barely stand up. This POKéMON becomes stronger by stumbling and falling to keep up with its parent. FireRed Its body is light, and its legs are incredibly powerful. It can clear Ayers Rock in one leap. LeafGreen Its hooves are ten times harder than diamond. It can trample anything completely flat in little time. Emerald A PONYTA is very weak at birth. It can barely stand up. Its legs become stronger as it stumbles and falls while trying to keep up with its parent. Diamond About an hour after birth, its fiery mane and tail grow out, giving it an impressive appearance. Pearl Its legs grow strong while it chases after its parent. It runs in fields and mountains all day. Platinum As a newborn, it can barely stand. However, through galloping, its legs are made tougher and faster. HeartGold It is a weak runner immediately after birth. It gradually becomes faster by chasing after its parents. SoulSilver Its hind legs, which have hooves that are harder than diamond, kick back at any presence it senses behind it. Black White Black 2 White 2 As a newborn, it can barely stand. However, through galloping, its legs are made tougher and faster. X As a newborn, it can barely stand. However, through galloping, its legs are made tougher and faster. Y Its legs grow strong while it chases after its parent. It runs in fields and mountains all day. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Ponyta is very weak at birth. It can barely stand up. This Pokémon becomes stronger by stumbling and falling to keep up with its parent. 
Rapidash	078	Generation 1	Fire 			Fire Horse Pokemon	 Flash Fire Run Away Flame Body  	5′7″ (1.70m) 		209.4 lbs (95.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Very competitive, this POKéMON will chase anything that moves fast in the hopes of racing it. Yellow Just loves to run. If it sees something faster than itself, it will give chase at top speed. Gold At full gallop, its four hooves barely touch the ground because it moves so incredibly fast. Silver With incredible acceleration, it reaches its top speed of 150 mph after running just ten steps. Crystal It just loves to gallop. The faster it goes, the longer the swaying flames of its mane will become. Ruby Sapphire RAPIDASH usually can be seen casually cantering in the fields and plains. However, when this POKéMON turns serious, its fiery manes flare and blaze as it gallops its way up to 150 mph. FireRed It can gallop at a top speed of 150 miles per hour. It can race as fast as a bullet train while ablaze. LeafGreen Very competitive, this POKéMON will chase anything that moves fast in the hopes of racing it. Emerald It usually canters casually in the fields and plains. But once a RAPIDASH turns serious, its fiery manes flare and blaze as it gallops its way up to 150 mph. Diamond It gallops at nearly 150 mph. With its mane blazing ferociously, it races as if it were an arrow. Pearl It has astounding acceleration. From a standstill, it can reach top speed within 10 steps. Platinum When at an all-out gallop, its blazing mane sparkles, enhancing its beautiful appearance. HeartGold At full gallop, its four hooves barely touch the ground because it moves so incredibly fast. SoulSilver With incredible acceleration, it reaches its top speed of 150 mph after running just 10 steps. Black White Black 2 White 2 When at an all-out gallop, its blazing mane sparkles, enhancing its beautiful appearance. X Very competitive, this Pokémon will chase anything that moves fast in the hopes of racing it. Y It gallops at nearly 150 mph. With its mane blazing ferociously, it races as if it were an arrow. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Rapidash usually can be seen casually cantering in the fields and plains. However, when this Pokémon turns serious, its fiery manes flare and blaze as it gallops its way up to 150 mph. 
Slowpoke	079	Generation 1	Water Psychic 		Dopey Pokemon		 Oblivious Own Tempo Regenerator  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		79.4 lbs (36.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Incredibly slow and dopey. It takes 5 seconds for it to feel pain when under attack. Yellow Incredibly slow and sluggish. It is quite content to loll about without worrying about the time. Gold It lazes vacantly near water. If something bites its tail, it won't even notice for a whole day. Silver A sweet sap leaks from its tail's tip. Although not nutritious, the tail is pleasant to chew on. Crystal It is always so absent-minded that it won't react, even if its flavorful tail is bitten. Ruby Sapphire SLOWPOKE uses its tail to catch prey by dipping it in water at the side of a river. However, this POKéMON often forgets what it’s doing and often spends entire days just loafing at water’s edge. FireRed It is always vacantly lost in thought, but no one knows what it is thinking about. It is good at fishing with its tail. LeafGreen Incredibly slow and dopey. It takes five seconds for it to feel pain when under attack. Emerald It catches prey by dipping its tail in water at the side of a river. But it often forgets what it is doing and spends entire days just loafing at water’s edge. Diamond Pearl Platinum Although slow, it is skilled at fishing with its tail. It does not feel pain if its tail is bitten. HeartGold It lazes vacantly near water. If something bites its tail, it won’t even notice for a whole day. SoulSilver A sweet sap leaks from its tail’s tip. Although not nutritious, the tail is pleasant to chew on. Black White Black 2 White 2 Although slow, it is skilled at fishing with its tail. It does not feel pain if its tail is bitten. X It is always vacantly lost in thought, but no one knows what it is thinking about. It is good at fishing with its tail. Y It lazes vacantly near water. If something bites its tail, it won’t even notice for a whole day. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Slowpoke uses its tail to catch prey by dipping it in water at the side of a river. However, this Pokémon often forgets what it’s doing and often spends entire days just loafing at water’s edge. Sun Its long tail often breaks off. It doesn’t really feel any pain, though, and the tail grows back, so Slowpoke isn’t particularly bothered. Moon Alolan home cooking involves drying Slowpoke tails and then simmering them into a salty stew. 
Slowbro		080	Generation 1	Water Psychic 		Hermit Crab Pokemon	 Oblivious Own Tempo Regenerator  	5′3″ (1.60m) 		173.1 lbs (78.5 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue The SHELLDER that is latched onto SLOWPOKE's tail is said to feed on the host's left over scraps. Yellow Lives lazily by the sea. If the SHELLDER on its tail comes off, it becomes a SLOWPOKE again. Gold If the tail-biting SHELLDER is thrown off in a harsh battle, it reverts to being an ordinary SLOWPOKE. Silver Naturally dull to begin with, it lost its ability to feel pain due to SHELLDER's seeping poison. Crystal An attached SHELLDER won't let go because of the tasty flavor that oozes out of its tail. Ruby Sapphire SLOWBRO’s tail has a SHELLDER firmly attached with a bite. As a result, the tail can’t be used for fishing anymore. This causes SLOWBRO to grudgingly swim and catch prey instead. FireRed When a SLOWPOKE went hunting in the sea, its tail was bitten by a SHELLDER. That made it evolve into SLOWBRO. LeafGreen The SHELLDER that latches onto SLOWPOKE’s tail is said to feed on the host’s leftover scraps. Emerald Its tail has a SHELLDER firmly attached with a bite. As a result, the tail can’t be used for fishing anymore. This forces it to reluctantly swim and catch prey. Diamond Pearl Platinum Though usually dim witted, it seems to become inspired if the SHELLDER on its tail bites down. HeartGold If the tail-biting SHELLDER is thrown off in a harsh battle, it reverts to being an ordinary SLOWPOKE. SoulSilver Naturally dull to begin with, it lost its ability to feel pain due to SHELLDER’s seeping poison. Black White Black 2 White 2 Though usually dim witted, it seems to become inspired if the Shellder on its tail bites down. X An attached Shellder won’t let go because of the tasty flavor that oozes out of its tail. Y When a Slowpoke went hunting in the sea, its tail was bitten by a Shellder. That made it evolve into Slowbro. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Slowbro’s tail has a Shellder firmly attached with a bite. As a result, the tail can’t be used for fishing anymore. This causes Slowbro to grudgingly swim and catch prey instead. Sun It spaces out while gazing at the sea. With Shellder’s poison flowing through its body, it becomes even spacier. Moon Whenever Shellder bites down hard on its tail, it gives Slowbro a flash of inspiration...which it forgets a moment later. 
Magnemite	081	Generation 1	Electric Steel 		Magnet Pokemon		 Magnet Pull Sturdy Analytic  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		13.2 lbs (6.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Uses anti-gravity to stay suspended. Appears without warning and uses THUNDER WAVE and similar moves. Yellow It is born with the ability to defy gravity. It floats in air on powerful electromagnetic waves. Gold It is attracted by electromagnetic waves. It may approach trainers if they are using their POKéGEAR. Silver The units at the sides of its body generate antigravity energy to keep it aloft in the air. Crystal The electricity emitted by the units on each side of its body cause it to become a strong magnet. Ruby MAGNEMITE attaches itself to power lines to feed on electricity. If your house has a power outage, check your circuit breakers. You may find a large number of this POKéMON clinging to the breaker box. Sapphire MAGNEMITE floats in the air by emitting electromagnetic waves from the units at its sides. These waves block gravity. This POKéMON becomes incapable of flight if its internal electrical supply is depleted. FireRed It moves while constantly hovering. It discharges THUNDER WAVE and so on from the units at its sides. LeafGreen Uses antigravity to stay suspended. Appears without warning and uses THUNDER WAVE and similar moves. Emerald The units at its sides are extremely powerful magnets. They generate enough magnetism to draw in iron objects from over 300 feet away. Diamond Pearl The units at its sides generate electromagnetic waves that keep it airborne. It feeds on electricity. Platinum The faster the units at its sides rotate, the greater the magnetic force they generate. HeartGold It is attracted by electromagnetic waves. It may approach Trainers if they are using their Pokégear. SoulSilver The units at the sides of its body generate antigravity energy to keep it aloft in the air. Black White The faster the units at its sides rotate, the greater the magnetic force they generate. Black 2 White 2 The electromagnetic waves emitted by the units at the sides of its head expel antigravity, which allows it to float. X The units at the sides of its body generate antigravity energy to keep it aloft in the air. Y It moves while constantly hovering. It discharges Thunder Wave and so on from the units at its sides. Omega Ruby Magnemite attaches itself to power lines to feed on electricity. If your house has a power outage, check your circuit breakers. You may find a large number of this Pokémon clinging to the breaker box. Alpha Sapphire Magnemite floats in the air by emitting electromagnetic waves from the units at its sides. These waves block gravity. This Pokémon becomes incapable of flight if its internal electrical supply is depleted. Sun They gather in places where electricity is available. They can be found clinging to the steel towers used to support power lines. Moon It sends out electromagnetic waves, which let it float through the air. Touching it while it’s eating electricity will give you a full-body shock. 
Magneton	082	Generation 1	Electric Steel 		Magnet Pokemon		 Magnet Pull Sturdy Analytic  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		132.3 lbs (60.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Formed by several MAGNEMITEs linked together. They frequently appear when sunspots flare up. Yellow Generates strange radio signals. It raises the temperature by 3.6F degrees within 3,300 feet. Gold Three MAGNEMITE are linked by a strong magnetic force. Earaches will occur if you get too close. Silver The MAGNEMITE are united by a magnetism so powerful, it dries all moisture in its vicinities. Crystal When many MAGNETON gather together, the resulting magnetic storm disrupts radio waves. Ruby MAGNETON emits a powerful magnetic force that is fatal to mechanical devices. As a result, large cities sound sirens to warn citizens of large-scale outbreaks of this POKéMON. Sapphire MAGNETON emits a powerful magnetic force that is fatal to electronics and precision instruments. Because of this, it is said that some towns warn people to keep this POKéMON inside a POKé BALL. FireRed A linked cluster formed of several MAGNEMITE. It discharges powerful magnetic waves at high voltage. LeafGreen Formed by several MAGNEMITE linked together. They frequently appear when sunspots flare up. Emerald It is actually three MAGNEMITE linked by magnetism. It generates powerful radio waves that raise temperatures by 3.6 degrees F within a 3,300-foot radius. Diamond Pearl It is actually three MAGNEMITE linked by magnetism. A group can set off a magnetic storm. Platinum Many mysteriously appear when more sunspots dot the sun. They stop TV sets from displaying properly. HeartGold Three MAGNEMITE are linked by a strong magnetic force. Earaches will occur if you get too close. SoulSilver The MAGNEMITE are united by a magnetism so powerful, it dries all moisture in its vicinity. Black White Many mysteriously appear when more sunspots dot the sun. They stop TV sets from displaying properly. Black 2 White 2 The stronger electromagnetic waves from the three linked Magnemite are enough to dry out surrounding moisture. X A linked cluster formed of several Magnemite. It discharges powerful magnetic waves at high voltage. Y Generates strange radio signals. It raises the temperature by 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit within 3,300 feet. Omega Ruby Magneton emits a powerful magnetic force that is fatal to mechanical devices. As a result, large cities sound sirens to warn citizens of large-scale outbreaks of this Pokémon. Alpha Sapphire Magneton emits a powerful magnetic force that is fatal to electronics and precision instruments. Because of this, it is said that some towns warn people to keep this Pokémon inside a Poké Ball. Sun When three Magnemite link together, their brains also become one. They do not become three times more intelligent. Moon It has about three times the electrical power of Magnemite. For some reason, outbreaks of this Pokémon happen when lots of sunspots appear. 
Doduo		084	Generation 1	Normal Flying 		Twin Bird Pokemon	 Early Bird Run Away Tangled Feet  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		86.4 lbs (39.2 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue A bird that makes up for its poor flying with its fast foot speed. Leaves giant footprints. Yellow Its short wings make flying difficult. Instead, this POKéMON runs at high speed on developed legs. Gold By alternately raising and lowering its two heads, it balances itself to be more stable while running. Silver It races through grassy plains with powerful strides, leaving footprints up to four inches deep. Crystal It lives on a grassy plain where it can see a long way. If it sees an enemy, it runs away at 60 mph. Ruby DODUO’s two heads never sleep at the same time. Its two heads take turns sleeping, so one head can always keep watch for enemies while the other one sleeps. Sapphire DODUO’s two heads contain completely identical brains. A scientific study reported that on rare occasions, there will be examples of this POKéMON possessing different sets of brains. FireRed A two-headed POKéMON that was discovered as a sudden mutation. It runs at a pace of over 60 miles per hour. LeafGreen A bird that makes up for its poor flying with its fast foot speed. Leaves giant footprints. Emerald Even while eating or sleeping, one of the heads remains always vigilant for any sign of danger. When threatened, it flees at over 60 miles per hour. Diamond Pearl Platinum The brains in its two heads appear to communicate emotions to each other with a telepathic power. HeartGold By alternately raising and lowering its two heads, it balances itself to be more stable while running. SoulSilver It races through grassy plains with powerful strides, leaving footprints up to four inches deep. Black White Black 2 White 2 The brains in its two heads appear to communicate emotions to each other with a telepathic power. X A two-headed Pokémon that was discovered as a sudden mutation. It runs at a pace of over 60 miles per hour. Y The brains in its two heads appear to communicate emotions to each other with a telepathic power. Omega Ruby Doduo’s two heads never sleep at the same time. Its two heads take turns sleeping, so one head can always keep watch for enemies while the other one sleeps. Alpha Sapphire Doduo’s two heads contain completely identical brains. A scientific study reported that on rare occasions, there will be examples of this Pokémon possessing different sets of brains. 
Dodrio		085	Generation 1	Normal Flying 		Triple Bird Pokemon	 Early Bird Run Away Tangled Feet  	5′11″ (1.80m) 		187.8 lbs (85.2 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Uses its three brains to execute complex plans. While two heads sleep, one head stays awake. Yellow One of DODUO's 2 heads splits to form a unique species. It runs close to 40 MPH in prairies. Gold It collects data and plans three times as wisely, but it may think too much and become immobilized. Silver If one of the heads gets to eat, the others will be satisfied, too, and they will stop squabbling. Crystal An enemy that takes its eyes off any of the three heads--even for a second--will get pecked severely. Ruby Watch out if DODRIO’s three heads are looking in three separate directions. It’s a sure sign that it is on its guard. Don’t go near this POKéMON if it’s being wary - it may decide to peck you. Sapphire Apparently, the heads aren’t the only parts of the body that DODRIO has three of. It has three sets of hearts and lungs as well, so it is capable of running long distances without rest. FireRed An odd species that is rarely found. The three heads respectively represent joy, sadness, and anger. LeafGreen Uses its three brains to execute complex plans. While two heads sleep, one head is said to stay awake. Emerald A peculiar POKéMON species with three heads. It vigorously races across grassy plains even in arid seasons with little rainfall. Diamond Pearl Platinum When DODUO evolves into this odd breed, one of its heads splits into two. It runs at nearly 40 mph. HeartGold It collects data and plans three times as wisely, but it may think too much and fall into a state of immobility. SoulSilver If one of the heads gets to eat, the others will be satisfied, too, and they will stop squabbling. Black White Black 2 White 2 When Doduo evolves into this odd breed, one of its heads splits into two. It runs at nearly 40 mph. X An enemy that takes its eyes off any of the three heads--even for a second--will get pecked severely. Y An odd species that is rarely found. The three heads respectively represent joy, sadness, and anger. Omega Ruby Watch out if Dodrio’s three heads are looking in three separate directions. It’s a sure sign that it is on its guard. Don’t go near this Pokémon if it’s being wary—it may decide to peck you. Alpha Sapphire Apparently, the heads aren’t the only parts of the body that Dodrio has three of. It has three sets of hearts and lungs as well, so it is capable of running long distances without rest. 
Seel		086	Generation 1	Water 			Sea Lion Pokemon	 Hydration Thick Fat Ice Body  	3′7″ (1.09m) 		198.4 lbs (90.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue The protruding horn on its head is very hard. It is used for bashing through thick ice. Yellow Loves freezing cold conditions. Relishes swimming in a frigid climate of around 14F degrees. Gold Although it can't walk well on land, it is a graceful swimmer. It especially loves being in frigid seas. Silver In daytime, it is often found asleep on the seabed in shallow waters. Its nostrils close while it swims. Crystal The light blue fur that covers it keeps it protected against the cold. It loves iceberg-filled oceans. Ruby Sapphire SEEL hunts for prey in the frigid sea underneath sheets of ice. When it needs to breathe, it punches a hole through the ice with the sharply protruding section of its head. FireRed Covered with light blue fur, its hide is thick and tough. It is active in bitter cold of minus 40 degrees Fahrenheit. LeafGreen The protruding horn on its head is very hard. It is used for bashing through thick icebergs. Emerald SEEL hunt for prey in frigid, ice-covered seas. When it needs to breathe, it punches a hole through the ice with the sharply protruding section of its head. Diamond Pearl Platinum A Pokémon that lives on icebergs. It swims in the sea using the point on its head to break up ice. HeartGold Although it can’t walk well on land, it is a graceful swimmer. It especially loves being in frigid seas. SoulSilver In daytime, it is often found asleep on the seabed in shallow waters. Its nostrils close while it swims. Black White A Pokémon that lives on icebergs. It swims in the sea using the point on its head to break up ice. Black 2 White 2 The colder it gets, the better it feels. It joyfully swims around oceans so cold that they are filled with floating ice. X A Pokémon that lives on icebergs. It swims in the sea using the point on its head to break up ice. Y Covered with light blue fur, its hide is thick and tough. It is active in bitter cold of -40 degrees Fahrenheit. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Seel hunts for prey in the frigid sea underneath sheets of ice. When it needs to breathe, it punches a hole through the ice with the sharply protruding section of its head. 
Dewgong		087	Generation 1	Water Ice 		Sea Lion Pokemon	 Hydration Thick Fat Ice Body  	5′7″ (1.70m) 		264.6 lbs (120.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Stores thermal energy in its body. Swims at a steady 8 knots even in intensely cold waters. Yellow Its entire body is a snowy-white. Unharmed by even intense cold, it swims powerfully in icy waters. Gold Its streamlined body has little drag in water. The colder the temperature, the friskier it gets. Silver It loves frigid seas with ice floes. It uses its long tail to change swimming direction quickly. Crystal It sleeps under shallow ocean waters during the day, then looks for food at night when it's cold. Ruby Sapphire DEWGONG loves to snooze on bitterly cold ice. The sight of this POKéMON sleeping on a glacier was mistakenly thought to be a mermaid by a mariner long ago. FireRed Its body is covered with a pure white fur. The colder the weather, the more active it becomes. LeafGreen It stores thermal energy in the body. It swims at a steady eight knots even in intensely cold waters. Emerald It loves to snooze on bitterly cold ice. The sight of this POKéMON sleeping on a glacier was mistakenly thought to be a mermaid by a mariner long ago. Diamond Pearl Platinum In snow, the pure white coat covering its body obscures it from predators. HeartGold Its streamlined body has little drag in water. The colder the temperature, the friskier it gets. SoulSilver It loves frigid seas with ice floes. It uses its long tail to change swimming direction quickly. Black White In snow, the pure white coat covering its body obscures it from predators. Black 2 White 2 Its streamlined body has low resistance, and it swims around cold oceans at a speed of eight knots. X Its body is covered with a pure white fur. The colder the weather, the more active it becomes. Y Its streamlined body has little drag in water. The colder the temperature, the friskier it gets. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Dewgong loves to snooze on bitterly cold ice. The sight of this Pokémon sleeping on a glacier was mistakenly thought to be a mermaid by a mariner long ago. 
Grimer		088	Generation 1	Poison 			Sludge Pokemon		 Stench Sticky Hold Poison Touch  	2′11″ (0.89m) 		66.1 lbs (30.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Appears in filthy areas. Thrives by sucking up polluted sludge that is pumped out of factories. Yellow Made of hardened sludge. It smells too putrid to touch. Even weeds won't grow in its path. Gold As it moves, it loses bits of its body from which new GRIMER emerge. This worsens the stench around it. Silver Wherever GRIMER has passed, so many germs are left behind that no plants will ever grow again. Crystal When two of these POKéMON's bodies are combined together, new poisons are created. Ruby GRIMER’s sludgy and rubbery body can be forced through any opening, however small it may be. This POKéMON enters sewer pipes to drink filthy wastewater. Sapphire GRIMER emerged from the sludge that settled on a polluted seabed. This POKéMON loves anything filthy. It constantly leaks a horribly germ-infested fluid from all over its body. FireRed Sludge exposed to X rays from the moon transformed into GRIMER. It loves feeding on filthy things. LeafGreen Appears in filthy areas. It thrives by sucking up polluted sludge that is pumped out of factories. Emerald Born from polluted sludge in the sea, GRIMER’s favorite food is anything filthy. They feed on wastewater pumped out from factories. Diamond Pearl Platinum It was born when sludge in a dirty stream was exposed to the moon’s X-rays. It appears among filth. HeartGold As it moves, it loses bits of its body, from which new GRIMER emerge. This worsens the stench around it. SoulSilver Wherever GRIMER has passed, so many germs are left behind that no plants will ever grow again. Black White It was born when sludge in a dirty stream was exposed to the moon’s X-rays. It appears among filth. Black 2 White 2 Born from sludge, these Pokémon now gather in polluted places and increase the bacteria in their bodies. X Sludge exposed to X-rays from the moon transformed into Grimer. It loves feeding on filthy things. Y Appears in filthy areas. It thrives by sucking up polluted sludge that is pumped out of factories. Omega Ruby Grimer’s sludgy and rubbery body can be forced through any opening, however small it may be. This Pokémon enters sewer pipes to drink filthy wastewater. Alpha Sapphire Grimer emerged from the sludge that settled on a polluted seabed. This Pokémon loves anything filthy. It constantly leaks a horribly germ-infested fluid from all over its body. Sun Its main source of food is the slimy industrial waste of factories. This Pokémon’s numbers have been decreasing in recent years. Moon It was born from sludge transformed by exposure to X-rays from the moon. When its internal load of germs decreases, it dies. 
Muk		089	Generation 1	Poison 			Sludge Pokemon		 Stench Sticky Hold Poison Touch  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		66.1 lbs (30.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Thickly covered with a filthy, vile sludge. It is so toxic, even its footprints contain poison. Yellow Smells so awful, it can cause fainting. Through degeneration, it lost its sense of smell. Gold They love to gather in smelly areas where sludge accumulates, making the stench around them worse. Silver Its body is made of a powerful poison. Touching it accidentally will cause a fever that requires bed rest. Crystal As it moves, a very strong poison leaks from it, making the ground there barren for three years. Ruby From MUK’s body seeps a foul fluid that gives off a nose-bendingly horrible stench. Just one drop of this POKéMON’s body fluid can turn a pool stagnant and rancid. Sapphire This POKéMON’s favorite food is anything that is repugnantly filthy. In dirty towns where people think nothing of throwing away litter on the streets, MUK are certain to gather. FireRed It is usually undetectable because it blends in with the ground. Touching it can cause terrible poisoning. LeafGreen Thickly covered with a filthy, vile sludge. It is so toxic, even its footprints contain poison. Emerald It prefers warm and humid habitats. In the summertime, the toxic substances in its body intensify, making MUK reek like putrid kitchen garbage. Diamond Pearl Platinum A toxic fluid seeps from its body. The fluid instantly kills plants and trees on contact. HeartGold They love to gather in smelly areas where sludge accumulates, making the stench around them worse. SoulSilver Its body is made of a powerful poison. Touching it accidentally will cause a fever that requires bed rest. Black White A toxic fluid seeps from its body. The fluid instantly kills plants and trees on contact. Black 2 White 2 It’s so stinky! Muk’s body contains toxic elements, and any plant will wilt when it passes by. X They love to gather in smelly areas where sludge accumulates, making the stench around them worse. Y A toxic fluid seeps from its body. The fluid instantly kills plants and trees on contact. Omega Ruby From Muk’s body seeps a foul fluid that gives off a nose-bendingly horrible stench. Just one drop of this Pokémon’s body fluid can turn a pool stagnant and rancid. Alpha Sapphire This Pokémon’s favorite food is anything that is repugnantly filthy. In dirty towns where people think nothing of throwing away litter on the streets, Muk are certain to gather. Sun The stench it gives off will make your nose scrunch up. Still, there are Muk fans who think that’s a good thing. Moon After recent environmental improvements, this Pokémon is now hardly seen at all. People speculate that it may go extinct at some point. 
Shellder	090	Generation 1	Water 			Bivalve Pokemon		 Shell Armor Skill Link Overcoat  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		8.8 lbs (4.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Its hard shell repels any kind of attack. It is vulnerable only when its shell is open. Yellow The shell can withstand any attack. However, when it is open, the tender body is exposed. Gold It swims facing backward by opening and closing its two-piece shell. It is surprisingly fast. Silver Grains of sand trapped in its shells mix with its body fluids to form beautiful pearls. Crystal Clamping on to an opponent reveals its vulnerable parts, so it uses this move only as a last resort. Ruby Sapphire At night, this POKéMON uses its broad tongue to burrow a hole in the seafloor sand and then sleep in it. While it is sleeping, SHELLDER closes its shell, but leaves its tongue hanging out. FireRed It is encased in a shell that is harder than diamond. Inside, however, it is surprisingly tender. LeafGreen Its hard shell repels any kind of attack. It is vulnerable only when its shell is open. Emerald At night, it burrows a hole in the seafloor with its broad tongue to make a place to sleep. While asleep, it closes its shell, but leaves its tongue hanging out. Diamond Pearl Platinum It swims backward by opening and closing its two shells. Its large tongue is always kept hanging out. HeartGold It swims facing backward by opening and closing its two-piece shell. It is surprisingly fast. SoulSilver Grains of sand trapped in its shells mix with its body fluids to form beautiful pearls. Black White Black 2 White 2 It swims backward by opening and closing its two shells. Its large tongue is always kept hanging out. X Its hard shell repels any kind of attack. It is vulnerable only when its shell is open. Y Clamping on to an opponent reveals its vulnerable parts, so it uses this move only as a last resort. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire At night, this Pokémon uses its broad tongue to burrow a hole in the seafloor sand and then sleep in it. While it is sleeping, Shellder closes its shell, but leaves its tongue hanging out. Sun The hardness of its shell surpasses the hardness of a diamond. In days gone by, people used the shells to make shields. Moon This Pokémon’s tongue is always hanging out. It uses its tongue with great dexterity to dig up sand from the seabed in its search for food. 
Cloyster	091	Generation 1	Water Ice 		Bivalve Pokemon		 Shell Armor Skill Link Overcoat  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		292.1 lbs (132.5 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue When attacked, it launches its horns in quick volleys. Its innards have never been seen. Yellow For protection, it uses its harder-than-diamonds shell. It also shoots spikes from the shell. Gold Once it slams its shell shut, it is impossible to open, even by those with superior strength. Silver CLOYSTER that live in seas with harsh tidal currents grow large, sharp spikes on their shells. Crystal Even a missile can't break the spikes it uses to stab opponents. They're even harder than its shell. Ruby Sapphire CLOYSTER is capable of swimming in the sea. It does so by swallowing water, then jetting it out toward the rear. This POKéMON shoots spikes from its shell using the same system. FireRed Its shell is extremely hard. It cannot be shattered, even with a bomb. The shell opens only when it is attacking. LeafGreen When attacked, it launches its horns in quick volleys. Its innards have never been seen. Emerald It swims in the sea by swallowing water, then jetting it out toward the rear. The CLOYSTER shoots spikes from its shell using the same system. Diamond Pearl Platinum It fights by keeping its shell tightly shut for protection and by shooting spikes to repel foes. HeartGold Once it slams its shell shut, it is impossible to open, even by those with superior strength. SoulSilver CLOYSTER that live in seas with harsh tidal currents grow large, sharp spikes on their shells. Black White Black 2 White 2 It fights by keeping its shell tightly shut for protection and by shooting spikes to repel foes. X Cloyster that live in seas with harsh tidal currents grow large, sharp spikes on their shells. Y Its shell is extremely hard. It cannot be shattered, even with a bomb. The shell opens only when it is attacking. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Cloyster is capable of swimming in the sea. It does so by swallowing water, then jetting it out toward the rear. This Pokémon shoots spikes from its shell using the same system. Sun Its hard shell cannot be shattered—not even by a bomb. The contents of the shell remain unknown. Moon Excavation of the tombs of ancient hunting tribes has turned up many spears tipped with spikes that had fallen off this Pokémon’s shell. 
Gastly		092	Generation 1	Ghost Poison 		Gas Pokemon		 Levitate 				4′3″ (1.30m) 		0.2 lbs (0.1 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Almost invisible, this gaseous POKéMON cloaks the target and puts it to sleep without notice. Yellow Said to appear in decrepit, deserted buildings. It has no real shape as it appears to be made of a gas. Gold With its gas-like body, it can sneak into any place it desires. However, it can be blown away by wind. Silver Its thin body is made of gas. It can envelop an opponent of any size and cause suffocation. Crystal It wraps its opponent in its gas-like body, slowly weakening its prey by poisoning it through the skin. Ruby Sapphire GASTLY is largely composed of gaseous matter. When exposed to a strong wind, the gaseous body quickly dwindles away. Groups of this POKéMON cluster under the eaves of houses to escape the ravages of wind. FireRed A being that exists as a thin gas. It can topple an Indian elephant by enveloping the prey in two seconds. LeafGreen Almost invisible, this gaseous POKéMON cloaks the target and puts it to sleep without notice. Emerald When exposed to a strong wind, a GASTLY’s gaseous body quickly dwindles away. They cluster under the eaves of houses to escape the ravages of wind. Diamond This Pokémon’s body is 95% made up of gases, which are blown away by strong gusts of wind. Pearl A Pokémon born from poison gases. It defeats even the largest foes by enveloping them in gas. Platinum Born from gases, anyone would faint if engulfed by its gaseous body, which contains poison. HeartGold With its gas-like body, it can sneak into any place it desires. However, it can be blown away by wind. SoulSilver Its body is made of gas. Despite lacking substance, it can envelop an opponent of any size and cause suffocation. Black White Black 2 White 2 Born from gases, anyone would faint if engulfed by its gaseous body, which contains poison. X Its body is made of gas. Despite lacking substance, it can envelop an opponent of any size and cause suffocation. Y Born from gases, anyone would faint if engulfed by its gaseous body, which contains poison. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Gastly is largely composed of gaseous matter. When exposed to a strong wind, the gaseous body quickly dwindles away. Groups of this Pokémon cluster under the eaves of houses to escape the ravages of wind. Sun Should a strange light be seen flickering in an abandoned building, Gastly is lurking there. Moon Although Gastly is barely visible, when it’s near, a faint sweet smell lingers. 
Haunter		093	Generation 1	Ghost Poison 		Gas Pokemon		 Levitate 				5′3″ (1.60m) 		0.2 lbs (0.1 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Because of its ability to slip through block walls, it is said to be from another dimension. Yellow By licking, it saps the victim's life. It causes shaking that won't stop until the victim's demise. Gold In total darkness, where nothing is visible, HAUNTER lurks, silently stalking its next victim. Silver Its tongue is made of gas. If licked, its victim starts shaking constantly until death eventually comes. Crystal It hides in the dark, planning to take the life of the next living thing that wanders close by. Ruby Sapphire HAUNTER is a dangerous POKéMON. If one beckons you while floating in darkness, you must never approach it. This POKéMON will try to lick you with its tongue and steal your life away. FireRed If you get the feeling of being watched in darkness when nobody is around, HAUNTER is there. LeafGreen Because of its ability to slip through block walls, it is said to be from another dimension. Emerald If a HAUNTER beckons you while it is floating in darkness, don’t approach it. This POKéMON will try to lick you with its tongue and steal your life away. Diamond It can slip through any obstacle. It lurks inside walls to keep an eye on its foes. Pearl It licks with its gaseous tongue to steal the victim’s life force. It lurks in darkness for prey. Platinum It likes to lurk in the dark and tap shoulders with a gaseous hand. Its touch causes endless shuddering. HeartGold In total darkness, where nothing is visible, HAUNTER lurks, silently stalking its next victim. SoulSilver Its tongue is made of gas. If licked, its victim starts shaking constantly until death eventually comes. Black White Black 2 White 2 It likes to lurk in the dark and tap shoulders with a gaseous hand. Its touch causes endless shuddering. X If you get the feeling of being watched in darkness when nobody is around, Haunter is there. Y It licks with its gaseous tongue to steal the victim’s life force. It lurks in darkness for prey. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Haunter is a dangerous Pokémon. If one beckons you while floating in darkness, you must never approach it. This Pokémon will try to lick you with its tongue and steal your life away. Sun It strikes at humans from total darkness. Those licked by its cold tongue grow weaker with each passing day until they die. Moon It fears the light and revels in the dark. It may be on the verge of extinction in cities that stay brightly lit at night. 
Gengar		094	Generation 1	Ghost Poison 		Shadow Pokemon		 Cursed Body 				4′11″ (1.50m) 		89.3 lbs (40.5 kg) 		Second stage
Red Blue Under a full moon, this POKéMON likes to mimic the shadows of people and laugh at their fright. Yellow A GENGAR is close by if you feel a sudden chill. It may be trying to lay a curse on you. Gold It steals heat from its surroundings. If you feel a sudden chill, it is certain that a GENGAR appeared. Silver To steal the life of its target, it slips into the prey's shadow and silently waits for an opportunity. Crystal Hiding in people's shadows at night, it absorbs their heat. The chill it causes makes the victims shake. Ruby Sapphire Sometimes, on a dark night, your shadow thrown by a streetlight will suddenly and startlingly overtake you. It is actually a GENGAR running past you, pretending to be your shadow. FireRed It is said to emerge from darkness to steal the lives of those who become lost in mountains. LeafGreen On the night of a full moon, if shadows move on their own and laugh, it must be GENGAR’s doing. Emerald Deep in the night, your shadow cast by a streetlight may suddenly overtake you. It is actually a GENGAR running past you, pretending to be your shadow. Diamond It hides in shadows. It is said that if GENGAR is hiding, it cools the area by nearly 10 degrees F. Pearl Lurking in the shadowy corners of rooms, it awaits chances to steal its prey’s life force. Platinum The leer that floats in darkness belongs to a GENGAR delighting in casting curses on people. HeartGold It steals heat from its surroundings. If you feel a sudden chill, it is certain that a GENGAR appeared. SoulSilver To steal the life of its target, it slips into the prey’s shadow and silently waits for an opportunity. Black White Black 2 White 2 The leer that floats in darkness belongs to a Gengar delighting in casting curses on people. X It hides in shadows. It is said that if Gengar is hiding, it cools the area by nearly 10 degrees Fahrenheit. Y Hiding in people’s shadows at night, it absorbs their heat. The chill it causes makes the victims shake. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Sometimes, on a dark night, your shadow thrown by a streetlight will suddenly and startlingly overtake you. It is actually a Gengar running past you, pretending to be your shadow. Sun Should you feel yourself attacked by a sudden chill, it is evidence of an approaching Gengar. There is no escaping it. Give up. Moon It apparently wishes for a traveling companion. Since it was once human itself, it tries to create one by taking the lives of other humans. 
Onix		095	Generation 1	Rock Ground 		Rock Snake Pokemon	 Rock Head Sturdy Weak Armor  	28′10″ (8.79m) 		463 lbs (210.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue As it grows, the stone portions of its body harden to become similar to a diamond, but colored black. Yellow Burrows at high speed in search of food. The tunnels it leaves are used as homes by DIGLETTs. Gold It twists and squirms through the ground. The thunderous roar of its tunneling echoes a long way. Silver It rapidly bores through the ground at 50 mph by squirming and twisting its massive, rugged body. Crystal As it digs through the ground, it absorbs many hard objects. This is what makes its body so solid. Ruby Sapphire ONIX has a magnet in its brain. It acts as a compass so that this POKéMON does not lose direction while it is tunneling. As it grows older, its body becomes increasingly rounder and smoother. FireRed It usually lives underground. It searches for food while boring its way through the ground at 50 miles per hour. LeafGreen As it grows, the stone portions of its body harden to become similar to black-colored diamonds. Emerald There is a magnet in its brain that prevents an ONIX from losing direction while tunneling. As it grows older, its body becomes steadily rounder and smoother. Diamond When it travels underground, it causes rumbling and tremors. It can move at 50 mph. Pearl It squirms through the ground using its long and rugged body. It always eats while burrowing. Platinum It burrows through the ground at a speed of 50 mph while feeding on large boulders. HeartGold It twists and squirms through the ground. The thunderous roar of its tunneling echoes a long way. SoulSilver It rapidly bores through the ground at 50 mph by squirming and twisting its massive, rugged body. Black White It burrows through the ground at a speed of 50 mph while feeding on large boulders. Black 2 White 2 Opening its large mouth, it ingests massive amounts of soil and creates long tunnels. X Burrows at high speed in search of food. The tunnels it leaves are used as homes by Diglett. Y It usually lives underground. It searches for food while boring its way through the ground at 50 miles per hour. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Onix has a magnet in its brain. It acts as a compass so that this Pokémon does not lose direction while it is tunneling. As it grows older, its body becomes increasingly rounder and smoother. 
Drowzee		096	Generation 1	Psychic 		Hypnosis Pokemon	 Forewarn Insomnia Inner Focus  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		71.4 lbs (32.4 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Puts enemies to sleep then eats their dreams. Occasionally gets sick from eating bad dreams. Yellow If you sleep by it all the time, it will sometimes show you dreams it has eaten in the past. Gold If you think that you had a good dream, but you can't remember it, a DROWZEE has probably eaten it. Silver It remembers every dream it eats. It rarely eats the dreams of adults because children's are much tastier. Crystal When it twitches its nose, it can tell where someone is sleeping and what that person is dreaming about. Ruby Sapphire If your nose becomes itchy while you are sleeping, it’s a sure sign that one of these POKéMON is standing above your pillow and trying to eat your dream through your nostrils. FireRed A descendent of the legendary animal baku, which is said to eat dreams. It is skilled at hypnotism. LeafGreen Puts enemies to sleep, then eats their dreams. Occasionally gets sick from eating only bad dreams. Emerald If your nose becomes itchy while you are sleeping, it’s a sure sign that a DROWZEE is standing above your pillow and trying to eat your dream through your nostrils. Diamond Pearl Platinum It can tell what people are dreaming by sniffing with its big nose. It loves fun dreams. HeartGold If you think that you had a good dream but you can’t remember it, a DROWZEE has probably eaten it. SoulSilver It remembers every dream it eats. It rarely eats the dreams of adults because children’s are much tastier. Black White Black 2 White 2 It can tell what people are dreaming by sniffing with its big nose. It loves fun dreams. X Puts enemies to sleep, then eats their dreams. Occasionally gets sick from eating only bad dreams. Y If you think that you had a good dream but you can’t remember it, a Drowzee has probably eaten it. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire If your nose becomes itchy while you are sleeping, it’s a sure sign that one of these Pokémon is standing above your pillow and trying to eat your dream through your nostrils. Sun A Pokémon that nourishes itself by eating dreams, it is thought to share common ancestry with Munna and Musharna. Moon It finds really fun dreams tasty. When it makes friends with people, it may show them the most delicious dreams it’s ever eaten. 
Hypno		097	Generation 1	Psychic 		Hypnosis Pokemon	 Forewarn Insomnia Inner Focus  	5′3″ (1.60m) 		166.7 lbs (75.6 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue When it locks eyes with an enemy, it will use a mix of PSI moves such as HYPNOSIS and CONFUSION. Yellow Avoid eye contact if you come across one. It will try to put you to sleep by using its pendulum. Gold When it is very hungry, it puts humans it meets to sleep, then it feasts on their dreams. Silver Always holding a pendulum that it rocks at a steady rhythm, it causes drowsiness in anyone nearby. Crystal The longer it swings its pendulum, the longer the effects of its hypnosis last. Ruby Sapphire HYPNO holds a pendulum in its hand. The arcing movement and glitter of the pendulum lull the foe into a deep state of hypnosis. While this POKéMON searches for prey, it polishes the pendulum. FireRed It carries a pendulum-like device. There once was an incident in which it took away a child it hypnotized. LeafGreen When it locks eyes with an enemy, it will use a mix of PSI moves such as HYPNOSIS and CONFUSION. Emerald The arcing movement and glitter of the pendulum in a HYPNO’s hand lull the foe into deep hypnosis. While searching for prey, it polishes the pendulum. Diamond Pearl Platinum Seeing its swinging pendulum can induce sleep in three seconds, even in someone who just woke up. HeartGold When it is very hungry, it puts humans it meets to sleep, then it feasts on their dreams. SoulSilver Always holding a pendulum that it swings at a steady rhythm, it causes drowsiness in anyone nearby. Black White Black 2 White 2 Seeing its swinging pendulum can induce sleep in three seconds, even in someone who just woke up. X It carries a pendulum-like device. There once was an incident in which it took away a child it hypnotized. Y Seeing its swinging pendulum can induce sleep in three seconds, even in someone who just woke up. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Hypno holds a pendulum in its hand. The arcing movement and glitter of the pendulum lull the foe into a deep state of hypnosis. While this Pokémon searches for prey, it polishes the pendulum. Sun While it is an extremely dangerous Pokémon, people who are in need of a good, sound sleep call it their savior. Moon As a matter of course, it makes anyone it meets fall asleep and has a taste of their dreams. Anyone having a good dream, it carries off. 
Krabby		098	Generation 1	Water 			River Crab Pokemon	 Hyper Cutter Shell Armor Sheer Force  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		14.3 lbs (6.5 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Its pincers are not only powerful weapons, they are used for balance when walking sideways. Yellow Its pincers are superb weapons. They sometimes break off during battle, but they grow back fast. Gold If it senses danger approaching, it cloaks itself with bubbles from its mouth so it will look bigger. Silver The pincers break off easily. If it loses a pincer, it somehow becomes incapable of walking sideways. Crystal If it is unable to find food, it will absorb nutrients by swallowing a mouthful of sand. Ruby Sapphire KRABBY live on beaches, burrowed inside holes dug into the sand. On sandy beaches with little in the way of food, these POKéMON can be seen squabbling with each other over territory. FireRed It can be found near the sea. The large pincers grow back if they are torn out of their sockets. LeafGreen Its pincers are not only powerful weapons, they are used for balance when walking sideways. Emerald KRABBY live in holes dug into beaches. On sandy shores with little in the way of food, they can be seen squabbling with each other over territory. Diamond Pearl Platinum It lives in burrows dug on sandy beaches. Its pincers fully grow back if they are broken in battle. HeartGold If it senses danger approaching, it cloaks itself with bubbles from its mouth so it will look bigger. SoulSilver The pincers break off easily. If it loses a pincer, it somehow becomes incapable of walking sideways. Black White Black 2 White 2 It lives in burrows dug on sandy beaches. Its pincers fully grow back if they are broken in battle. X If it senses danger approaching, it cloaks itself with bubbles from its mouth so it will look bigger. Y It can be found near the sea. The large pincers grow back if they are torn out of their sockets. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Krabby live on beaches, burrowed inside holes dug into the sand. On sandy beaches with little in the way of food, these Pokémon can be seen squabbling with each other over territory. 
Kingler		099	Generation 1	Water 			Pincer Pokemon		 Hyper Cutter Shell Armor Sheer Force  	4′3″ (1.30m) 		132.3 lbs (60.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue The large pincer has 10000 hp of crushing power. However, its huge size makes it unwieldy to use. Yellow One claw grew massively and as hard as steel. It has 10,000-HP strength. However, it is too heavy. Gold It can hardly lift its massive, overgrown pincer. The pincer's size makes it difficult to aim properly. Silver Its pincers grow peculiarly large. If it lifts the pincers too fast, it loses its balance and staggers. Crystal Its oversized claw is very powerful, but when it's not in battle, the claw just gets in the way. Ruby Sapphire KINGLER has an enormous, oversized claw. It waves this huge claw in the air to communicate with others. However, because the claw is so heavy, the POKéMON quickly tires. FireRed Its large and hard pincer has 10,000-horsepower strength. However, being so big, it is unwieldy to move. LeafGreen The large pincer has 10,000-horsepower crushing force. However, its huge size makes it unwieldy to use. Emerald It waves its huge, oversized claw in the air to communicate with others. But since the claw is so heavy, this POKéMON quickly tires. Diamond Pearl Platinum The larger pincer has 10,000-horsepower strength. However, it is so heavy, it is difficult to aim. HeartGold It can hardly lift its massive, overgrown pincer. The pincer’s size makes it difficult to aim properly. SoulSilver Its pincers grow peculiarly large. If it lifts the pincers too fast, it loses its balance and staggers. Black White Black 2 White 2 The larger pincer has 10,000-horsepower strength. However, it is so heavy, it is difficult to aim. X Its large and hard pincer has 10,000-horsepower strength. However, being so big, it is unwieldy to move. Y Its pincers grow peculiarly large. If it lifts the pincers too fast, it loses its balance and staggers. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Kingler has an enormous, oversized claw. It waves this huge claw in the air to communicate with others. However, because the claw is so heavy, the Pokémon quickly tires. 
Voltorb		100	Generation 1	Electric 		Ball Pokemon		 Soundproof Static Aftermath  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		22.9 lbs (10.4 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Usually found in power plants. Easily mistaken for a POKé BALL, they have zapped many people. Yellow It is said to camouflage itself as a POKé BALL. It will self-destruct with very little stimulus. Gold It rolls to move. If the ground is uneven, a sudden jolt from hitting a bump can cause it to explode. Silver It was discovered when POKé BALLS were introduced. It is said that there is some connection. Crystal During the study of this POKéMON, it was discovered that its components are not found in nature. Ruby VOLTORB was first sighted at a company that manufactures POKé BALLS. The link between that sighting and the fact that this POKéMON looks very similar to a POKé BALL remains a mystery. Sapphire VOLTORB is extremely sensitive - it explodes at the slightest of shocks. It is rumored that it was first created when a POKé BALL was exposed to a powerful pulse of energy. FireRed A life-form whose identity is unknown. It is said to SCREECH or suddenly SELFDESTRUCT. LeafGreen Usually found in power plants. Easily mistaken for a POKé BALL, it has zapped many people. Emerald It bears an uncanny and unexplained resemblance to a POKé BALL. Because it explodes at the slightest shock, even veteran TRAINERS treat it with caution. Diamond Pearl Platinum It looks just like a Poké Ball. It is dangerous because it may electrocute or explode on touch. HeartGold It rolls to move. If the ground is uneven, a sudden jolt from hitting a bump can cause it to explode. SoulSilver It was discovered when Poké Balls were introduced. It is said that there is some connection. Black White It looks just like a Poké Ball. It is dangerous because it may electrocute or explode on touch. Black 2 White 2 It looks just like a Poké Ball. It is dangerous because it may electrocute or explode on contact. X It was discovered when Poké Balls were introduced. It is said that there is some connection. Y Usually found in power plants. Easily mistaken for a Poké Ball, it has zapped many people. Omega Ruby Voltorb was first sighted at a company that manufactures Poké Balls. The link between that sighting and the fact that this Pokémon looks very similar to a Poké Ball remains a mystery. Alpha Sapphire Voltorb is extremely sensitive—it explodes at the slightest of shocks. It is rumored that it was first created when a Poké Ball was exposed to a powerful pulse of energy. 
Electrode	101	Generation 1	Electric 		Ball Pokemon		 Soundproof Static Aftermath  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		146.8 lbs (66.6 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue It stores electric energy under very high pressure. It often explodes with little or no provocation. Yellow Stores electrical energy inside its body. Even the slightest shock could trigger a huge explosion. Gold It is dangerous. If it has too much electricity and has nothing to do, it amuses itself by exploding. Silver It stores an overflowing amount of electric energy inside its body. Even a small shock makes it explode. Crystal The more energy it charges up, the faster it gets. But this also makes it more likely to explode. Ruby ELECTRODE eats electricity in the atmosphere. On days when lightning strikes, you can see this POKéMON exploding all over the place from eating too much electricity. Sapphire One of ELECTRODE’s characteristics is its attraction to electricity. It is a problematical POKéMON that congregates mostly at electrical power plants to feed on electricity that has just been generated. FireRed It explodes in response to even minor stimuli. It is feared, with the nickname of “The Bomb Ball.” LeafGreen It stores electric energy under very high pressure. It often explodes with little or no provocation. Emerald They appear in great numbers at electric power plants. Because they feed on electricity, they cause massive and chaotic blackouts in nearby cities. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is known to drift on winds if it is bloated to bursting with stored electricity. HeartGold It is dangerous. If it has too much electricity and has nothing to do, it amuses itself by exploding. SoulSilver It stores an overflowing amount of electric energy inside its body. Even a small shock makes it explode. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is known to drift on winds if it is bloated to bursting with stored electricity. X It explodes in response to even minor stimuli. It is feared, with the nickname of “The Bomb Ball.” Y It stores an overflowing amount of electric energy inside its body. Even a small shock makes it explode. Omega Ruby Electrode eats electricity in the atmosphere. On days when lightning strikes, you can see this Pokémon exploding all over the place from eating too much electricity. Alpha Sapphire One of Electrode’s characteristics is its attraction to electricity. It is a problematical Pokémon that congregates mostly at electrical power plants to feed on electricity that has just been generated. 
Exeggcute	102	Generation 1	Grass Psychic 		Egg Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Harvest  			1′4″ (0.41m) 		5.5 lbs (2.5 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Often mistaken for eggs. When disturbed, they quickly gather and attack in swarms. Yellow The heads attract each other and spin around. There must be 6 heads for it to maintain balance. Gold The shell is very durable. Even if it cracks, it can survive without spilling the contents. Silver Using telepathy only they can receive, they always form a cluster of six EXEGGCUTE. Crystal If even one is separated from the group, the energy bond between the six will make them rejoin instantly. Ruby Sapphire This POKéMON consists of six eggs that form a closely knit cluster. The six eggs attract each other and spin around. When cracks increasingly appear on the eggs, EXEGGCUTE is close to evolution. FireRed Even though it appears to be eggs of some sort, it was discovered to be a life-form more like plant seeds. LeafGreen It is often mistaken for eggs. When disturbed, they quickly gather and attack in swarms. Emerald It consists of six eggs that care for each other. The eggs attract each other and spin around. When cracks increasingly appear, it is close to evolution. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its six eggs converse using telepathy. They can quickly gather if they become separated. HeartGold Their shells are very durable. Even if they crack, they can survive without spilling their contents. SoulSilver Using telepathy only they can employ, they always form a cluster of six EXEGGCUTE. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its six eggs converse using telepathy. They can quickly gather if they become separated. X Its six eggs converse using telepathy. They can quickly gather if they become separated. Y Even though it appears to be eggs of some sort, it was discovered to be a life-form more like plant seeds. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire This Pokémon consists of six eggs that form a closely knit cluster. The six eggs attract each other and spin around. When cracks increasingly appear on the eggs, Exeggcute is close to evolution. Sun Its six eggs use telepathy to communicate among themselves. It is believed to carry plant genes and the genes of other species. Moon Six of them together form a full-fledged Pokémon. It’s often hunted by Crabrawler, but uses psychokinesis to drive it off. 
Exeggutor	103	Generation 1	Grass Psychic 		Coconut Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Harvest  			6′7″ (2.01m) 		264.6 lbs (120.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Legend has it that on rare occasions, one of its heads will drop off and continue on as an EXEGGCUTE. Yellow Its cries are very noisy. This is because each of the 3 heads thinks about whatever it likes. Gold Its three heads think independently. However, they are friendly and never appear to squabble. Silver If a head drops off, it emits a telepathic call in search of others to form an EXEGGCUTE cluster. Crystal Living in a good environment makes it grow lots of heads. A head that drops off becomes an EXEGGCUTE. Ruby Sapphire EXEGGUTOR originally came from the tropics. Its heads steadily grow larger from exposure to strong sunlight. It is said that when the heads fall off, they group together to form EXEGGCUTE. FireRed It is called “The Walking Tropical Rainforest.” Each of the nuts has a face and a will of its own. LeafGreen It is said that on rare occasions, one of its heads will drop off and continue on as an EXEGGCUTE. Emerald Originally from the tropics, EXEGGUTOR’s heads grow larger from exposure to strong sunlight. It is said that when the heads fall, they group to form an EXEGGCUTE. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is called “The Walking Jungle.” If a head grows too big, it falls off and becomes an EXEGGCUTE. HeartGold Its three heads think independently. However, they are friendly and never appear to squabble. SoulSilver If a head drops off, it emits a telepathic call in search of others to form an EXEGGCUTE cluster. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is called “The Walking Jungle.” If a head grows too big, it falls off and becomes an Exeggcute. X Its three heads think independently. However, they are friendly and never appear to squabble. Y It is called “The Walking Jungle.” If a head grows too big, it falls off and becomes an Exeggcute. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Exeggutor originally came from the tropics. Its heads steadily grow larger from exposure to strong sunlight. It is said that when the heads fall off, they group together to form Exeggcute. Sun Each of its heads has its own will. They use telepathy to discuss their plans before coming to a joint decision. Moon When the time comes, one of its three heads falls off. Before long, the fallen head grows into an Exeggcute. 
Cubone		104	Generation 1	Ground 			Lonely Pokemon		 Lightning Rod Rock Head Battle Armor  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		14.3 lbs (6.5 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Because it never removes its skull helmet, no one has ever seen this POKéMON's real face. Yellow Wears the skull of its deceased mother. Its cries echo inside the skull and come out as a sad melody. Gold If it is sad or lonely, the skull it wears shakes, and emits a plaintive and mournful sound. Silver It always wears the skull of its dead mother, so no one has any idea what its hidden face looks like. Crystal It lost its mother after its birth. It wears its mother's skull, never revealing its true face. Ruby Sapphire CUBONE pines for the mother it will never see again. Seeing a likeness of its mother in the full moon, it cries. The stains on the skull the POKéMON wears are made by the tears it sheds. FireRed It wears the skull of its dead mother on its head. When it becomes lonesome, it is said to cry loudly. LeafGreen Because it never removes its skull helmet, no one has ever seen this POKéMON’s real face. Emerald It pines for the mother it will never see again. Seeing a likeness of its mother in the full moon, it cries. The stains on the skull it wears are from its tears. Diamond Pearl Platinum When it thinks of its dead mother, it cries. Its crying makes the skull it wears rattle hollowly. HeartGold If it is sad or lonely, the skull it wears shakes and emits a plaintive and mournful sound. SoulSilver It always wears the skull of its dead mother, so no one has any idea what its hidden face looks like. Black White Black 2 White 2 When it thinks of its dead mother, it cries. Its crying makes the skull it wears rattle hollowly. X It wears the skull of its dead mother on its head. When it becomes lonesome, it is said to cry loudly. Y It always wears the skull of its dead mother, so no one has any idea what its hidden face looks like. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Cubone pines for the mother it will never see again. Seeing a likeness of its mother in the full moon, it cries. The stains on the skull the Pokémon wears are made by the tears it sheds. Sun When it thinks of its deceased mother, it weeps loudly. Mandibuzz that hear its cries will attack it from the air. Moon The skull it wears on its head is that of its dead mother. According to some, it will evolve when it comes to terms with the pain of her death. 
Marowak		105	Generation 1	Ground 			Bone Keeper Pokemon	 Lightning Rod Rock Head Battle Armor  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		99.2 lbs (45.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue The bone it holds is its key weapon. It throws the bone skillfully like a boomerang to KO targets. Yellow Small and weak, this POKéMON is adept with its bone club. It has grown more vicious over the ages. Gold It has been seen pounding boulders with the bone it carries in order to tap out messages to others. Silver It collects bones from an unknown place. A MAROWAK graveyard exists somewhere in the world, rumors say. Crystal Somewhere in the world is a cemetery just for MAROWAK. It gets its bones from those graves. Ruby Sapphire MAROWAK is the evolved form of a CUBONE that has overcome its sadness at the loss of its mother and grown tough. This POKéMON’s tempered and hardened spirit is not easily broken. FireRed It is small and was originally very weak. Its temperament turned ferocious when it began using bones. LeafGreen The bone it holds is its key weapon. It throws the bone skillfully like a boomerang to KO targets. Emerald A MAROWAK is the evolved form of a CUBONE that has grown tough by overcoming the grief of losing its mother. Its tempered and hardened spirit is not easily broken. Diamond Pearl Platinum From its birth, this savage Pokémon constantly holds bones. It is skilled in using them as weapons. HeartGold It has been seen pounding boulders with the bone it carries in order to tap out messages to others. SoulSilver It collects bones from an unknown place. Some whisper that a MAROWAK graveyard exists somewhere in the world. Black White Black 2 White 2 From its birth, this savage Pokémon constantly holds bones. It is skilled in using them as weapons. X It is small and was originally very weak. Its temperament turned ferocious when it began using bones. Y The bone it holds is its key weapon. It throws the bone skillfully like a boomerang to KO targets. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Marowak is the evolved form of a Cubone that has overcome its sadness at the loss of its mother and grown tough. This Pokémon’s tempered and hardened spirit is not easily broken. Sun Originally, it was weak and timid. After evolution, its temperament becomes violent, and it begins to wield bones as weapons. Moon This Pokémon is out for vengeance on its natural enemy, Mandibuzz. It throws bones like boomerangs to try to take it down. 
Hitmonlee	106	Generation 1	Fighting 		Kicking Pokemon		 Limber Reckless Unburden  		4′11″ (1.50m) 		109.8 lbs (49.8 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue When in a hurry, its legs lengthen progressively. It runs smoothly with extra long, loping strides. Yellow When kicking, the sole of its foot turns as hard as a diamond on impact and destroys its enemy. Gold This amazing POKéMON has an awesome sense of balance. It can kick in succession from any position. Silver If it starts kicking repeatedly, both legs will stretch even longer to strike a fleeing foe. Crystal It is also called the Kick Master. It uses its elastic legs to execute every known kick. Ruby Sapphire HITMONLEE’s legs freely contract and stretch. Using these springlike legs, it bowls over foes with devastating kicks. After battle, it rubs down its legs and loosens the muscles to overcome fatigue. FireRed The legs freely contract and stretch. The stretchy legs allow it to hit a distant foe with a rising kick. LeafGreen When in a hurry, its legs lengthen progressively. It runs smoothly with extra-long, loping strides. Emerald Its legs freely stretch and contract. Using these springlike limbs, it bowls over foes with devastating kicks. After battle, it rubs down its tired legs. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its legs can stretch double. First-time foes are startled by its extensible reach. HeartGold This amazing Pokémon has an awesome sense of balance. It can kick in succession from any position. SoulSilver If it starts kicking repeatedly, both legs will stretch even longer to strike a fleeing foe. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its legs can stretch double. First-time foes are startled by its extensible reach. X The legs freely contract and stretch. The stretchy legs allow it to hit a distant foe with a rising kick. Y If it starts kicking repeatedly, both legs will stretch even longer to strike a fleeing foe. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Hitmonlee’s legs freely contract and stretch. Using these springlike legs, it bowls over foes with devastating kicks. After battle, it rubs down its legs and loosens the muscles to overcome fatigue. 
Hitmonchan	107	Generation 1	Fighting 		Punching Pokemon	 Iron Fist Keen Eye Inner Focus  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		110.7 lbs (50.2 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue While apparently doing nothing, it fires punches in lightning fast volleys that are impossible to see. Yellow Punches in corkscrew fashion. It can punch its way through a concrete wall in the same way as a drill. Gold Its punches slice the air. However, it seems to need a short break after fighting for three minutes. Silver Its punches slice the air. They are launched at such high speed, even a slight graze could cause a burn. Crystal To increase the strength of all its punch moves, it spins its arms just before making contact. Ruby Sapphire HITMONCHAN is said to possess the spirit of a boxer who had been working towards a world championship. This POKéMON has an indomitable spirit and will never give up in the face of adversity. FireRed The spirit of a pro boxer has infused this POKéMON. It throws punches that are faster than a bullet train. LeafGreen While apparently doing nothing, it fires punches in lightning-fast volleys that are impossible to see. Emerald A HITMONCHAN is said to possess the spirit of a boxer who aimed to become the world champion. Having an indomitable spirit means that it will never give up. Diamond Pearl Platinum The arm-twisting punches it throws pulverize even concrete. It rests after three minutes of fighting. HeartGold Its punches slice the air. However, it seems to need a short break after fighting for three minutes. SoulSilver Its punches slice the air. They are launched at such high speed, even a slight graze could cause a burn. Black White Black 2 White 2 The arm-twisting punches it throws pulverize even concrete. It rests after three minutes of fighting. X The arm-twisting punches it throws pulverize even concrete. It rests after three minutes of fighting. Y The spirit of a pro boxer has infused this Pokémon. It throws punches that are faster than a bullet train. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Hitmonchan is said to possess the spirit of a boxer who had been working toward a world championship. This Pokémon has an indomitable spirit and will never give up in the face of adversity. 
Lickitung	108	Generation 1	Normal 			Licking Pokemon		 Oblivious Own Tempo Cloud Nine  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		144.4 lbs (65.5 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Its tongue can be extended like a chameleon's. It leaves a tingling sensation when it licks enemies. Yellow Its tongue spans almost 7 feet and moves more freely than its forelegs. Its licks can cause paralysis. Gold Its tongue has well-developed nerves that run to the very tip, so it can be deftly manipulated. Silver Its long tongue, slathered with a gooey saliva, sticks to anything, so it is very useful. Crystal It has a tongue that is over 6’6’’ long. It uses this long tongue to lick its body clean. Ruby Sapphire Whenever LICKITUNG comes across something new, it will unfailingly give it a lick. It does so because it memorizes things by texture and by taste. It is somewhat put off by sour things. FireRed Its tongue is twice the length of its body. It can be moved like an arm for grabbing food and attacking. LeafGreen Its tongue can be extended like a chameleon’s. It leaves a tingling sensation when it licks enemies. Emerald Whenever it sees something unfamiliar, it always licks the object because it memorizes things by texture and taste. It is somewhat put off by sour things. Diamond Pearl Instead of hands, it uses its tongue, which is twice its height. Its sticky saliva grips anything. Platinum When it extends its over-six-foot-long tongue, its tail quivers. There is a possibility they are connected. HeartGold Its tongue has well-developed nerves that run to the very tip, so it can be deftly manipulated. SoulSilver Its long tongue, slathered with a gooey saliva, sticks to anything, so it is very useful. Black White When it extends its over-six-foot-long tongue, its tail quivers. There is a possibility they are connected. Black 2 White 2 Being licked by its long, saliva-covered tongue leaves a tingling sensation. Extending its tongue retracts its tail. X Its long tongue, slathered with a gooey saliva, sticks to anything, so it is very useful. Y Its tongue is twice the length of its body. It can be moved like an arm for grabbing food and attacking. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Whenever Lickitung comes across something new, it will unfailingly give it a lick. It does so because it memorizes things by texture and by taste. It is somewhat put off by sour things. 
Koffing		109	Generation 1	Poison 			Poison Gas Pokemon	 Levitate 				2′0″ (0.61m) 		2.2 lbs (1.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Because it stores several kinds of toxic gases in its body, it is prone to exploding without warning. Yellow In hot places, its internal gases could expand and explode without any warning. Be very careful! Gold Its thin, filmy body is filled with gases that cause constant sniffles, coughs and teary eyes. Silver The poisonous gases it contains are a little bit lighter than air, keeping it slightly airborne. Crystal If one gets close enough to it when it expels poisonous gas, the gas swirling inside it can be seen. Ruby If KOFFING becomes agitated, it raises the toxicity of its internal gases and jets them out from all over its body. This POKéMON may also overinflate its round body, then explode. Sapphire KOFFING embodies toxic substances. It mixes the toxins with raw garbage to set off a chemical reaction that results in a terribly powerful poison gas. The higher the temperature, the more gas is concocted by this POKéMON. FireRed Its thin, balloon-like body is inflated by horribly toxic gases. It reeks when it is nearby. LeafGreen Because it stores several kinds of toxic gases in its body, it is prone to exploding without warning. Emerald Getting up close to a KOFFING will give you a chance to observe, through its thin skin, the toxic gases swirling inside. It blows up at the slightest stimulation. Diamond Pearl Platinum Lighter-than-air gases in its body keep it aloft. The gases not only smell, they are also explosive. HeartGold Its thin, filmy body is filled with gases that cause constant sniffles, coughs and teary eyes. SoulSilver The poisonous gases it contains are a little bit lighter than air, keeping it slightly airborne. Black White Lighter-than-air gases in its body keep it aloft. The gases not only smell, they are also explosive. Black 2 White 2 Toxic gas is held within its thin, balloon-shaped body, so it can cause massive explosions. X Its thin, balloon-like body is inflated by horribly toxic gases. It reeks when it is nearby. Y Lighter-than-air gases in its body keep it aloft. The gases not only smell, they are also explosive. Omega Ruby If Koffing becomes agitated, it raises the toxicity of its internal gases and jets them out from all over its body. This Pokémon may also overinflate its round body, then explode. Alpha Sapphire Koffing embodies toxic substances. It mixes the toxins with raw garbage to set off a chemical reaction that results in a terribly powerful poison gas. The higher the temperature, the more gas is concocted by this Pokémon. 
Weezing		110	Generation 1	Poison 			Poison Gas Pokemon	 Levitate 				3′11″ (1.19m) 		20.9 lbs (9.5 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Where two kinds of poison gases meet, 2 KOFFINGs can fuse into a WEEZING over many years. Yellow It lives and grows by absorbing dust, germs and poison gases that are contained in toxic waste and garbage. Gold If one of the twin KOFFING inflates, the other one deflates. It constantly mixes its poisonous gases. Silver Top-grade perfume is made using its internal poison gases by diluting them to the highest level. Crystal When it inhales poisonous gases from garbage, its body expands, and its insides smell much worse. Ruby WEEZING loves the gases given off by rotted kitchen garbage. This POKéMON will find a dirty, unkempt house and make it its home. At night, when the people in the house are asleep, it will go through the trash. Sapphire WEEZING alternately shrinks and inflates its twin bodies to mix together toxic gases inside. The more the gases are mixed, the more powerful the toxins become. The POKéMON also becomes more putrid. FireRed Very rarely, a sudden mutation can result in two small KOFFING twins becoming conjoined as a WEEZING. LeafGreen Where two kinds of poison gases meet, two KOFFING can fuse into a WEEZING over many years. Emerald By diluting its toxic gases with a special process, the highest grade of perfume can be extracted. To WEEZING, gases emanating from garbage are the ultimate feast. Diamond Pearl Platinum It grows by feeding on gases released by garbage. Though very rare, triplets have been found. HeartGold If one of the twin KOFFING inflates, the other one deflates. It constantly mixes its poisonous gases. SoulSilver Top-grade perfume is made using its internal poison gases by diluting them to the highest level. Black White It grows by feeding on gases released by garbage. Though very rare, triplets have been found. Black 2 White 2 Inhaling toxic fumes from trash and mixing them inside its body lets it spread an even fouler stench. X If one of the twin Koffing inflates, the other one deflates. It constantly mixes its poisonous gases. Y Very rarely, a sudden mutation can result in two small Koffing twins becoming conjoined as a Weezing. Omega Ruby Weezing loves the gases given off by rotted kitchen garbage. This Pokémon will find a dirty, unkempt house and make it its home. At night, when the people in the house are asleep, it will go through the trash. Alpha Sapphire Weezing alternately shrinks and inflates its twin bodies to mix together toxic gases inside. The more the gases are mixed, the more powerful the toxins become. The Pokémon also becomes more putrid. 
Rhyhorn		111	Generation 1	Ground Rock 		Spikes Pokemon		 Lightning Rod Rock Head Reckless  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		253.5 lbs (115.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Its massive bones are 1000 times harder than human bones. It can easily knock a trailer flying. Yellow A POKéMON with a one-track mind. Once it charges, it won't stop running until it falls asleep. Gold It is inept at turning because of its four short legs. It can only charge and run in one direction. Silver It doesn't care if there is anything in its way. It just charges and destroys all obstacles. Crystal It can remember only one thing at a time. Once it starts rushing, it forgets why it started. Ruby RHYHORN runs in a straight line, smashing everything in its path. It is not bothered even if it rushes headlong into a block of steel. This POKéMON may feel some pain from the collision the next day, however. Sapphire RHYHORN’s brain is very small. It is so dense, while on a run it forgets why it started running in the first place. It apparently remembers sometimes if it demolishes something. FireRed Strong, but not too bright, this POKéMON can shatter even a skyscraper with its charging TACKLES. LeafGreen Its massive bones are 1,000 times harder than human bones. Its TACKLE can knock a semitrailer flying. Emerald Once it starts running, it doesn’t stop. Its tiny brain makes it so stupid that it can’t remember why it started running in the first place. Diamond Pearl Its body is clad in a thick hide, and its tackles topple buildings. Unfortunately, it is not smart. Platinum Its powerful tackles can destroy anything. However, it is too slow witted to help people work. HeartGold It is inept at turning because of its four short legs. It can only charge and run in one direction. SoulSilver It doesn’t care if there is anything in its way. It just charges and destroys all obstacles. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its powerful tackles can destroy anything. However, it is too slow witted to help people work. X Strong, but not too bright, this Pokémon can shatter even a skyscraper with its charging Tackles. Y It is inept at turning because of its four short legs. It can only charge and run in one direction. Omega Ruby Rhyhorn runs in a straight line, smashing everything in its path. It is not bothered even if it rushes headlong into a block of steel. This Pokémon may feel some pain from the collision the next day, however. Alpha Sapphire Rhyhorn’s brain is very small. It is so dense, while on a run it forgets why it started running in the first place. It apparently remembers sometimes if it demolishes something. 
Rhydon		112	Generation 1	Ground Rock 		Drill Pokemon		 Lightning Rod Rock Head Reckless  	6′3″ (1.91m) 		264.6 lbs (120.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Protected by an armor-like hide, it is capable of living in molten lava of 3,600 degrees. Yellow Walks on its hind legs. Shows signs of intelligence. Its armor-like hide even repels molten lava. Gold Its rugged hide protects it from even the heat of lava. However, the hide also makes it insensitive. Silver Its brain developed when it began walking on hind legs. Its thick hide protects it even in magma. Crystal By lightly spinning its drill-like horn, it can easily shatter even a diamond in the rough. Ruby RHYDON’s horn can crush even uncut diamonds. One sweeping blow of its tail can topple a building. This POKéMON’s hide is extremely tough. Even direct cannon hits don’t leave a scratch. Sapphire RHYDON has a horn that serves as a drill. It is used for destroying rocks and boulders. This POKéMON occasionally rams into streams of magma, but the armor-like hide prevents it from feeling the heat. FireRed It begins walking on its hind legs after evolution. It can punch holes through boulders with its horn. LeafGreen Protected by an armor-like hide, it is capable of living in molten lava of 3,600 degrees Fahrenheit. Emerald Its horn, which rotates like a drill, destroys tall buildings with one strike. It stands on its hind legs, and its brain is well developed. Diamond Pearl Its brain developed after it stood up on its hind legs. Its drill horn bores tunnels through solid rock. Platinum Standing on its hind legs freed its forelegs and made it smarter. It is very forgetful, however. HeartGold Its rugged hide protects it from even the heat of lava. However, the hide also makes it insensitive. SoulSilver Its brain developed when it began walking on hind legs. Its thick hide protects it even in magma. Black White Black 2 White 2 Standing on its hind legs freed its forelegs and made it smarter. It is very forgetful, however. X Protected by an armor-like hide, it is capable of living in molten lava of 3,600 degrees Fahrenheit. Y It begins walking on its hind legs after evolution. It can punch holes through boulders with its horn. Omega Ruby Rhydon’s horn can crush even uncut diamonds. One sweeping blow of its tail can topple a building. This Pokémon’s hide is extremely tough. Even direct cannon hits don’t leave a scratch. Alpha Sapphire Rhydon has a horn that serves as a drill. It is used for destroying rocks and boulders. This Pokémon occasionally rams into streams of magma, but the armor-like hide prevents it from feeling the heat. 
Chansey		113	Generation 1	Normal 			Egg Pokemon		 Natural Cure Serene Grace Healer  	3′7″ (1.09m) 		76.3 lbs (34.6 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue A rare and elusive POKéMON that is said to bring happiness to those who manage to get it. Yellow A gentle and kindhearted POKéMON that shares its nutritious eggs if it sees an injured POKéMON. Gold It walks carefully to prevent its egg from breaking. However, it is extremely fast at running away. Silver Few in number and difficult to capture, it is said to bring happiness to the trainer who catches it. Crystal People try to catch it for its extremely nutritious eggs, but it rarely can be found. Ruby Sapphire CHANSEY lays nutritionally excellent eggs on an everyday basis. The eggs are so delicious, they are easily and eagerly devoured by even those people who have lost their appetite. FireRed It lays several eggs a day. The eggs are apparently rich in nutrients and extremely delicious. LeafGreen A rare and elusive POKéMON that is said to bring happiness to those who manage to catch one. Emerald CHANSEY lay nutritionally excellent eggs every day. The eggs are so delicious, they are eagerly devoured by even those people who have lost their appetite. Diamond It is said to deliver happiness. Being compassionate, it shares its eggs with injured people. Pearl It lays several eggs a day and won’t share them with those who have evil in their hearts. Platinum A kindly Pokémon that lays highly nutritious eggs and shares them with injured Pokémon or people. HeartGold It walks carefully to prevent its egg from breaking. However, it is extremely fast at running away. SoulSilver Being few in number and difficult to capture, it is said to bring happiness to the Trainer who catches it. Black White Black 2 White 2 A kindly Pokémon that lays highly nutritious eggs and shares them with injured Pokémon or people. X It is said to deliver happiness. Being compassionate, it shares its eggs with injured people. Y It lays several eggs a day. The eggs are apparently rich in nutrients and extremely delicious. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Chansey lays nutritionally excellent eggs on an everyday basis. The eggs are so delicious, they are easily and eagerly devoured by even those people who have lost their appetite. Sun The eggs laid by Chansey are rich in nutrients and a favorite food of many Pokémon. Moon Not only are these Pokémon fast runners, they’re also few in number, so anyone who finds one must be lucky indeed. 
Tangela		114	Generation 1	Grass 			Vine Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Leaf Guard Regenerator  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		77.2 lbs (35.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue The whole body is swathed with wide vines that are similar to seaweed. Its vines shake as it walks. Yellow Its identity is obscured by masses of thick, blue vines. The vines are said to never stop growing. Gold The vines that cloak its entire body are always jiggling. They effectively unnerve its foes. Silver It tangles any moving thing with its vines. Their subtle shaking is ticklish if you get ensnared. Crystal During battle, it constantly moves the vines that cover its body in order to annoy its opponent. Ruby Sapphire TANGELA’s vines snap off easily if they are grabbed. This happens without pain, allowing it to make a quick getaway. The lost vines are replaced by newly grown vines the very next day. FireRed Blue plant vines cloak the POKéMON’s identity in a tangled mass. It entangles anything that gets close. LeafGreen The whole body is swathed with wide vines that are similar to seaweed. The vines sway as it walks. Emerald Its vines snap off easily and painlessly if they are grabbed, allowing it to make a quick getaway. The lost vines are replaced by new growth the very next day. Diamond Pearl It is shrouded by blue vines. No one has seen the face hidden behind this growth of vines. Platinum The blue vines shrouding its body are covered in a growth of fine hair. It is known to be ticklish. HeartGold The vines that cloak its entire body are always jiggling. They effectively unnerve its foes. SoulSilver It tangles any moving thing with its vines. Their subtle shaking is ticklish if you get ensnared. Black White The blue vines shrouding its body are covered in a growth of fine hair. It is known to be ticklish. Black 2 White 2 Many writhing vines cover it, so its true identity remains unknown. The blue vines grow its whole life long. X Many writhing vines cover it, so its true identity remains unknown. The blue vines grow its whole life long. Y It tangles any moving thing with its vines. Their subtle shaking is ticklish if you get ensnared. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Tangela’s vines snap off easily if they are grabbed. This happens without pain, allowing it to make a quick getaway. The lost vines are replaced by newly grown vines the very next day. 
Kangaskhan	115	Generation 1	Normal 			Parent Pokemon		 Early Bird Scrappy Inner Focus  	7′3″ (2.21m) 		176.4 lbs (80.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Horsea		116	Generation 1	Water 			Dragon Pokemon		 Sniper Swift Swim Damp  		1′4″ (0.41m) 		17.6 lbs (8.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Known to shoot down flying bugs with precision blasts of ink from the surface of the water. Yellow If it senses any danger, it will vigorously spray water or a special type of ink from its mouth. Gold If attacked by a larger enemy, it quickly swims to safety by adeptly controlling its dorsal fin. Silver Its big, developed fins move rapidly, allowing it to swim backward while still facing forward. Crystal When they're in a safe location, they can be seen playfully tangling their tails together. Ruby HORSEA eats small insects and moss off of rocks. If the ocean current turns fast, this POKéMON anchors itself by wrapping its tail around rocks or coral to prevent being washed away. Sapphire If HORSEA senses danger, it will reflexively spray a dense black ink from its mouth and try to escape. This POKéMON swims by cleverly flapping the fins on its back. FireRed It maintains balance using its tail, which is wound up like a coil. It may spray ink from its mouth. LeafGreen Known to shoot down flying bugs with precision blasts of ink from the surface of the water. Emerald By cleverly flicking the fins on its back side to side, it moves in any direction while facing forward. It spits ink to escape if it senses danger. Diamond Pearl Platinum It makes its nest in the shade of corals. If it senses danger, it spits murky ink and flees. HeartGold If attacked by a larger enemy, it quickly swims to safety by adeptly controlling its well-developed dorsal fin. SoulSilver Its big, developed fins move rapidly, allowing it to swim backward while still facing forward. Black White Black 2 White 2 It makes its nest in the shade of corals. If it senses danger, it spits murky ink and flees. X Known to shoot down flying bugs with precision blasts of ink from the surface of the water. Y It makes its nest in the shade of corals. If it senses danger, it spits murky ink and flees. Omega Ruby Horsea eats small insects and moss off of rocks. If the ocean current turns fast, this Pokémon anchors itself by wrapping its tail around rocks or coral to prevent being washed away. Alpha Sapphire If Horsea senses danger, it will reflexively spray a dense black ink from its mouth and try to escape. This Pokémon swims by cleverly flapping the fin on its back. 
Seadra		117	Generation 1	Water 			Dragon Pokemon		 Poison Point Sniper Damp  		3′11″ (1.19m) 		55.1 lbs (25.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Capable of swimming backwards by rapidly flapping its wing-like pectoral fins and stout tail. Yellow Touching the back fin causes numbness. It hooks its tail to coral to stay in place while sleeping. Gold An examination of its cells revealed the presence of a gene not found in HORSEA. It became a hot topic. Silver Its fin-tips leak poison. Its fins and bones are highly valued as ingredients in herbal medicine. Crystal The male raises the young. If it is approached, it uses its toxic spikes to fend off the intruder. Ruby SEADRA sleeps after wriggling itself between the branches of coral. Those trying to harvest coral are occasionally stung by this POKéMON’s poison barbs if they fail to notice it. Sapphire SEADRA generates whirlpools by spinning its body. The whirlpools are strong enough to swallow even fishing boats. This POKéMON weakens prey with these currents, then swallows it whole. FireRed Its body bristles with sharp spikes. Carelessly trying to touch it could cause fainting from the spikes. LeafGreen It is capable of swimming backwards by rapidly flapping its winglike pectoral fins and stout tail. Emerald The poisonous barbs all over its body are highly valued as ingredients for making traditional herbal medicine. It shows no mercy to anything approaching its nest. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its spines provide protection. Its fins and bones are prized as traditional medicine ingredients. HeartGold An examination of its cells revealed the presence of a gene not found in HORSEA. It became a hot topic. SoulSilver Its fin-tips leak poison. Its fins and bones are highly valued as ingredients in herbal medicine. Black White Its spines provide protection. Its fins and bones are prized as traditional medicine ingredients. Black 2 White 2 Its spines provide protection. Its fins and bones are prized as traditional-medicine ingredients. X Its body bristles with sharp spikes. Carelessly trying to touch it could cause fainting from the spikes. Y It is capable of swimming backwards by rapidly flapping its winglike pectoral fins and stout tail. Omega Ruby Seadra sleeps after wriggling itself between the branches of coral. Those trying to harvest coral are occasionally stung by this Pokémon’s poison barbs if they fail to notice it. Alpha Sapphire Seadra generates whirlpools by spinning its body. The whirlpools are strong enough to swallow even fishing boats. This Pokémon weakens prey with these currents, then swallows it whole. 
Goldeen		118	Generation 1	Water 			Goldfish Pokemon	 Swift Swim Water Veil Lightning Rod  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		33.1 lbs (15.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Its tail fin billows like an elegant ballroom dress, giving it the nickname of the Water Queen. Yellow When it is time for them to lay eggs, they can be seen swimming up rivers and falls in large groups. Gold Its dorsal, pectoral and tail fins wave elegantly in water. That is why it is known as the water dancer. Silver A strong swimmer, it is capable of swimming nonstop up fast streams at a steady speed of five knots. Crystal During spawning season, they swim gracefully in the water, searching for their perfect mate. Ruby GOLDEEN is a very beautiful POKéMON with fins that billow elegantly in water. However, don’t let your guard down around this POKéMON - it could ram you powerfully with its horn. Sapphire GOLDEEN loves swimming wild and free in rivers and ponds. If one of these POKéMON is placed in an aquarium, it will shatter even the thickest glass with one ram of its horn and make its escape. FireRed Its dorsal and pectoral fins are strongly developed like muscles. It can swim at a speed of five knots. LeafGreen Its tail fin billows like an elegant ballroom dress, giving it the nickname of “The Water Queen.” Emerald In the springtime, schools of GOLDEEN can be seen swimming up falls and rivers. It metes out staggering damage with its single horn. Diamond It swims elegantly by flittering its tail fin as if it were a dress. It has the look of a queen. Pearl It swims at a steady 5 knots. If it senses danger, it will strike back with its sharp horn. Platinum Though it appears very elegant when swimming with fins unfurled, it can jab powerfully with its horn. HeartGold Its dorsal, pectoral and tail fins wave elegantly in water. That is why it is known as the water dancer. SoulSilver A strong swimmer, it is capable of swimming nonstop up fast streams at a steady speed of five knots per hour. Black White Black 2 White 2 Though it appears very elegant when swimming with fins unfurled, it can jab powerfully with its horn. X It swims at a steady 5 knots. If it senses danger, it will strike back with its sharp horn. Y Its dorsal, pectoral, and tail fins wave elegantly in water. That is why it is known as the water dancer. Omega Ruby Goldeen is a very beautiful Pokémon with fins that billow elegantly in water. However, don’t let your guard down around this Pokémon—it could ram you powerfully with its horn. Alpha Sapphire Goldeen loves swimming wild and free in rivers and ponds. If one of these Pokémon is placed in an aquarium, it will shatter even the thickest glass with one ram of its horn and make its escape. Sun When the weather grows warm, they form groups and swim upriver. This sight serves as a poetic reminder that spring has arrived. Moon Spellbound by the length of its horn and the beauty of its fins, many strange Trainers raise Goldeen and nothing but Goldeen. 
Seaking		119	Generation 1	Water 			Goldfish Pokemon	 Swift Swim Water Veil Lightning Rod  	4′3″ (1.30m) 		86 lbs (39.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue In the autumn spawning season, they can be seen swimming powerfully up rivers and creeks. Yellow It is the male's job to make a nest by carving out boulders in a stream using the horn on its head. Gold During spawning season, SEAKING gather from all over, coloring the rivers a brilliant red. Silver Using its horn, it bores holes in riverbed boulders, making nests to prevent its eggs from washing away. Crystal When autumn comes, the males patrol the area around their nests in order to protect their offspring. Ruby In the autumn, SEAKING males can be seen performing courtship dances in riverbeds to woo females. During this season, this POKéMON’s body coloration is at its most beautiful. Sapphire SEAKING is very protective of its eggs. The male and female will take turns patrolling around their nest and eggs. The guarding of eggs by these POKéMON goes on for over a month. FireRed The horn on its head is sharp like a drill. It bores a hole in a boulder to make its nest. LeafGreen In the autumn spawning season, they can be seen swimming powerfully up rivers and creeks. Emerald It punches holes in boulders on streambeds. This is a clever innovation that prevents its eggs from being attacked or washed away by the current. Diamond It makes its nest by hollowing out boulders in streams with its horn. It defends its eggs with its life. Pearl To protect its family, it will fight with its drill-sharp horn. It lives in hollowed rocks in streams. Platinum In autumn, its body becomes more fatty in preparing to propose to a mate. It takes on beautiful colors. HeartGold During spawning season, SEAKING gather from all over, causing rivers to appear a brilliant red. SoulSilver Using its horn, it bores holes in riverbed boulders, making nests to prevent its eggs from washing away. Black White Black 2 White 2 In autumn, its body becomes more fatty in preparing to propose to a mate. It takes on beautiful colors. X In the autumn spawning season, they can be seen swimming powerfully up rivers and creeks. Y It makes its nest by hollowing out boulders in streams with its horn. It defends its eggs with its life. Omega Ruby In the autumn, Seaking males can be seen performing courtship dances in riverbeds to woo females. During this season, this Pokémon’s body coloration is at its most beautiful. Alpha Sapphire Seaking is very protective of its eggs. The male and female will take turns patrolling around their nest and eggs. The guarding of eggs by these Pokémon goes on for over a month. Sun When the weather grows cold, its whole body flushes a deep red. This sight serves as a poetic reminder that autumn has arrived. Moon Trainers who are crazy for Seaking are divided into horn enthusiasts and fin enthusiasts. The two groups do not get along well. 
Staryu		120	Generation 1	Water 			Star Shape Pokemon	 Illuminate Natural Cure Analytic  	2′7″ (0.79m) 		76.1 lbs (34.5 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue An enigmatic POKéMON that can effortlessly regenerate any appendage it loses in battle. Yellow As long as the center section is unharmed, it can grow back fully even if it is chopped to bits. Gold At night, the center of its body slowly flickers with the same rhythm as a human heartbeat. Silver Even if its body is torn, it can regenerate as long as the glowing central core remains intact. Crystal When the stars twinkle at night, it floats up from the sea floor, and its body's center core flickers. Ruby STARYU’s center section has an organ called the core that shines bright red. If you go to a beach toward the end of summer, the glowing cores of these POKéMON look like the stars in the sky. Sapphire STARYU apparently communicates with the stars in the night sky by flashing the red core at the center of its body. If parts of its body are torn, this POKéMON simply regenerates the missing pieces and limbs. FireRed It appears in large numbers by seashores. At night, its central core flashes with a red light. LeafGreen An enigmatic POKéMON that can effortlessly regenerate any appendage it loses in battle. Emerald It gathers with others in the night and makes its red core glow on and off with the twinkling stars. It can regenerate limbs if they are severed from its body. Diamond Pearl Platinum If its body is torn, it can grow back if the red core remains. The core flashes at midnight. HeartGold At night, the middle of its body slowly flickers with the same rhythm as a human heartbeat. SoulSilver Even if its body is torn, it can regenerate as long as the glowing central core remains intact. Black White If its body is torn, it can grow back if the red core remains. The core flashes at midnight. Black 2 White 2 As long as its red core remains, it can regenerate its body instantly, even if it’s torn apart. X Even if its body is torn, it can regenerate as long as the glowing central core remains intact. Y It appears in large numbers by seashores. At night, its central core flashes with a red light. Omega Ruby Staryu’s center section has an organ called the core that shines bright red. If you go to a beach toward the end of summer, the glowing cores of these Pokémon look like the stars in the sky. Alpha Sapphire Staryu apparently communicates with the stars in the night sky by flashing the red core at the center of its body. If parts of its body are torn, this Pokémon simply regenerates the missing pieces and limbs. Sun Large numbers of these Pokémon make their home at the seaside. At night, a strange red glow radiates from the center of their bodies. Moon This Pokémon gets nibbled on by Lumineon and others. Thanks to its red core, it regenerates fast, so it’s unconcerned by their snack attacks. 
Starmie		121	Generation 1	Water Psychic 		Mysterious Pokemon	 Illuminate Natural Cure Analytic  	3′7″ (1.09m) 		176.4 lbs (80.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Its central core glows with the seven colors of the rainbow. Some people value the core as a gem. Yellow The center section is named the core. People think it is communicating when it glows in 7 colors. Gold The center section of its body is called the core. It glows in a different color each time it is seen. Silver Regardless of the environment it lives in, its body grows to form a symmetrical geometric shape. Crystal It is said that it uses the seven-colored core of its body to send electric waves into outer space. Ruby STARMIE’s center section - the core - glows brightly in seven colors. Because of its luminous nature, this POKéMON has been given the nickname “the gem of the sea.” Sapphire STARMIE swims through water by spinning its star-shaped body as if it were a propeller on a ship. The core at the center of this POKéMON’s body glows in seven colors. FireRed This POKéMON has a geometric body. Because of its body, the locals suspect that it is an alien creature. LeafGreen Its central core glows with the seven colors of the rainbow. Some people value the core as a gem. Emerald People in ancient times imagined that STARMIE were transformed from the reflections of stars that twinkled on gentle waves at night. Diamond Pearl Platinum At the center of its body is a red core, which sends mysterious radio signals into the night sky. HeartGold The middle section of its body is called the core. It glows in a different color each time it is seen. SoulSilver Regardless of the environment it lives in, its body grows to form a symmetrical geometric shape. Black White At the center of its body is a red core, which sends mysterious radio signals into the night sky. Black 2 White 2 Its core shines in many colors and sends radio signals into space to communicate with something. X Its central core glows with the seven colors of the rainbow. Some people value the core as a gem. Y At the center of its body is a red core, which sends mysterious radio signals into the night sky. Omega Ruby Starmie’s center section—the core—glows brightly in seven colors. Because of its luminous nature, this Pokémon has been given the nickname “the gem of the sea.” Alpha Sapphire Starmie swims through water by spinning its star-shaped body as if it were a propeller on a ship. The core at the center of this Pokémon’s body glows in seven colors. Sun Its shining core is thought to receive and transmit enigmatic signals. It has been known to cause headaches in those who approach it. Moon Its unusual body shape, reminiscent of abstract art, led local people to spread rumors that this Pokémon may be an invader from outer space. 
Scyther		123	Generation 1	Bug Flying 		Mantis Pokemon		 Swarm Technician Steadfast  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		123.5 lbs (56.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue With ninja-like agility and speed, it can create the illusion that there is more than one. Yellow Leaps out of tall grass and slices prey with its scythes. The movement looks like that of a ninja. Gold It slashes through grass with its sharp scythes, moving too fast for the human eye to track. Silver When it moves, it leaves only a blur. If it hides in grass, its protective colors make it invisible. Crystal It's very proud of its speed. It moves so fast that its opponent does not even know what knocked it down. Ruby Sapphire SCYTHER is blindingly fast. Its blazing speed enhances the effectiveness of the twin scythes on its forearms. This POKéMON’s scythes are so effective, they can slice through thick logs in one wicked stroke. FireRed It tears and shreds prey with its wickedly sharp scythes. It very rarely spreads its wings to fly. LeafGreen With ninja-like agility and speed, it can create the illusion that there is more than one of itself. Emerald Its blindingly fast speed adds to the sharpness of its twin forearm scythes. The scythes can slice through thick logs in one wicked stroke. Diamond Pearl It is nearly impossible to parry its attacking scythes. Its movements are like a ninja’s. Platinum The sharp scythes on its forearms become increasingly sharp by cutting through hard objects. HeartGold It slashes through grass with its sharp scythes, moving too fast for the human eye to track. SoulSilver When it moves, it leaves only a blur. If it hides in grass, its protective coloration makes it invisible. Black White Black 2 White 2 The sharp scythes on its forearms become increasingly sharp by cutting through hard objects. X It tears and shreds prey with its wickedly sharp scythes. It very rarely spreads its wings to fly. Y It slashes through grass with its sharp scythes, moving too fast for the human eye to track. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Scyther is blindingly fast. Its blazing speed enhances the effectiveness of the twin scythes on its forearms. This Pokémon’s scythes are so effective, they can slice through thick logs in one wicked stroke. Sun It confuses its prey with its quick, ninja-like movements. Then, in an instant, it cleaves them with its scythes. Moon While young, they live together deep in the mountains, training themselves in how to fight with their scythes and move at high speeds. 
Jynx		124	Generation 1	Ice Psychic 		Human Shape Pokemon	 Forewarn Oblivious Dry Skin  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		89.5 lbs (40.6 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue It seductively wiggles its hips as it walks. It can cause people to dance in unison with it. Yellow Appears to move to a rhythm of its own, as if it were dancing. It wiggles its hips as it walks. Gold It rocks its body rhythmically. It appears to alter the rhythm depending on how it is feeling. Silver It speaks a language similar to that of humans. However, it seems to use dancing to communicate. Crystal It has several different cry patterns, each of which seems to have its own meaning. Ruby Sapphire JYNX walks rhythmically, swaying and shaking its hips as if it were dancing. Its motions are so bouncingly alluring, people seeing it are compelled to shake their hips without giving any thought to what they are doing. FireRed It speaks using a language that sounds human. Research is under way to determine what is being said. LeafGreen It seductively wiggles its hips as it walks. It can cause people to dance in unison with it. Emerald A JYNX sashays rhythmically as if it were dancing. Its motions are so bouncingly alluring, people seeing it are compelled to shake their hips without noticing. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its cries sound like human speech. However, it is impossible to tell what it is trying to say. HeartGold It rocks its body rhythmically. It appears to alter the rhythm depending on how it is feeling. SoulSilver It speaks a language similar to that of humans. However, it seems to use dancing to communicate. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its cries sound like human speech. However, it is impossible to tell what it is trying to say. X It wiggles its hips as it walks. It can cause people to dance in unison with it. Y It speaks using a language that sounds human. Research is under way to determine what is being said. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Jynx walks rhythmically, swaying and shaking its hips as if it were dancing. Its motions are so bouncingly alluring, people seeing it are compelled to shake their hips without giving any thought to what they are doing. 
Electabuzz	125	Generation 1	Electric 		Electric Pokemon	 Static Vital Spirit  			3′7″ (1.09m) 		66.1 lbs (30.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Normally found near power plants, they can wander away and cause major blackouts in cities. Yellow If a major power outage occurs, it is certain that this POKéMON has eaten electricity at a power plant. Gold Electricity runs across the surface of its body. In darkness, its entire body glows a whitish-blue. Silver Its body constantly discharges electricity. Getting close to it will make your hair stand on end. Crystal When two ELECTABUZZ touch, they control the electric currents to communicate their feelings. Ruby Sapphire When a storm arrives, gangs of this POKéMON compete with each other to scale heights that are likely to be stricken by lightning bolts. Some towns use ELECTABUZZ in place of lightning rods. FireRed It loves to feed on strong electricity. It occasionally appears around large power plants and so on. LeafGreen Normally found near power plants, they can wander away and cause major blackouts in cities. Emerald When a storm approaches, it competes with others to scale heights that are likely to be stricken by lightning. Some towns use ELECTABUZZ in place of lightning rods. Diamond Pearl Half of all blackouts occur when this Pokémon appears at power plants and eats electricity. Platinum It windmills its arms to slightly boost its punches. Foes have been known to escape in the meantime. HeartGold Electricity runs across the surface of its body. In darkness, its entire body glows a whitish-blue. SoulSilver Its body constantly discharges electricity. Getting close to it will make your hair stand on end. Black White It windmills its arms to slightly boost its punches. Foes have been known to escape in the meantime. Black 2 White 2 Research is progressing on storing lightning in Electabuzz so this energy can be used at any time. X Electricity runs across the surface of its body. In darkness, its entire body glows a whitish blue. Y It loves to feed on strong electricity. It occasionally appears around large power plants and so on. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire When a storm arrives, gangs of this Pokémon compete with each other to scale heights that are likely to be stricken by lightning bolts. Some towns use Electabuzz in place of lightning rods. Sun Half of all sudden blackouts are caused by Electabuzz gathering at electric power plants and gobbling up electricity. Moon Electricity leaks from it in amounts far greater than the amount of electricity it eats. 
Magmar		126	Generation 1	Fire 			Spitfire Pokemon	 Flame Body Vital Spirit  		4′3″ (1.30m) 		98.1 lbs (44.5 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Its body always burns with an orange glow that enables it to hide perfectly among flames. Yellow Born in an active volcano. Its body is always cloaked in flames, so it looks like a big ball of fire. Gold It dislikes cold places, so it blows scorching flames to make the environment suitable for itself. Silver The fiery surface of its body gives off a wavering, rippling glare that is similar to the sun. Crystal It moves more frequently in hot areas. It can heal itself by dipping its wound into lava. Ruby Sapphire In battle, MAGMAR blows out intensely hot flames from all over its body to intimidate its opponent. This POKéMON’s fiery bursts create heat waves that ignite grass and trees in its surroundings. FireRed Found near the mouth of a volcano. This fire-breather’s body temperature is nearly 2,200 degrees Fahrenheit. LeafGreen Its body always burns with an orange glow that enables it to hide perfectly amidst flames. Emerald In battle, it blows out intense flames from all over its body to intimidate its foe. These fiery bursts create heat waves that ignite grass and trees in the area. Diamond Pearl Born in the spout of a volcano, its body is covered by flames that shimmer like the sun. Platinum When it breathes deeply, heat waves form around its body, making it hard to see clearly. HeartGold It dislikes cold places, so it blows scorching flames to make the environment suitable for itself. SoulSilver The fiery surface of its body gives off a wavering, rippling glare that is similar to the sun. Black White When it breathes deeply, heat waves form around its body, making it hard to see clearly. Black 2 White 2 The scorching fire exhaled by Magmar forms heat waves around its body, making it hard to see the Pokémon clearly. X Found near the mouth of a volcano. This fire-breather’s body temperature is nearly 2,200 degrees Fahrenheit. Y Born in the spout of a volcano, its body is covered by flames that shimmer like the sun. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire In battle, Magmar blows out intensely hot flames from all over its body to intimidate its opponent. This Pokémon’s fiery bursts create heat waves that ignite grass and trees in its surroundings. Sun When it’s tired, it leaps into the mouth of a volcano and soaks its body in magma to ease its weariness. Its body burns at 2,192 degrees F. Moon When angered, it spouts brilliant fire from all over its body. It doesn’t calm down until its opponent has burned to ash. 
Pinsir		127	Generation 1	Bug 			Stag Beetle Pokemon	 Hyper Cutter Mold Breaker Moxie  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		121.3 lbs (55.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Tauros		128	Generation 1	Normal 			Wild Bull Pokemon	 Anger Point Intimidate Sheer Force  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		194.9 lbs (88.4 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Magikarp	129	Generation 1	Water 			Fish Pokemon		 Swift Swim Rattled  			2′11″ (0.89m) 		22 lbs (10.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue In the distant past, it was somewhat stronger than the horribly weak descendants that exist today. Yellow Famous for being very unreliable. It can be found swimming in seas, lakes, rivers and shallow puddles. Gold An underpowered, pathetic POKéMON. It may jump high on rare occasions, but never more than seven feet. Silver For no reason, it jumps and splashes about, making it easy for predators like PIDGEOTTO to catch it mid-jump. Crystal This weak and pathetic POKéMON gets easily pushed along rivers when there are strong currents. Ruby MAGIKARP is a pathetic excuse for a POKéMON that is only capable of flopping and splashing. This behavior prompted scientists to undertake research into it. Sapphire MAGIKARP is virtually useless in battle as it can only splash around. As a result, it is considered to be weak. However, it is actually a very hardy POKéMON that can survive in any body of water no matter how polluted it is. FireRed It is virtually worthless in terms of both power and speed. It is the most weak and pathetic POKéMON in the world. LeafGreen In the distant past, it was somewhat stronger than the horribly weak descendants that exist today. Emerald Its swimming muscles are weak, so it is easily washed away by currents. In places where water pools, you can see many MAGIKARP deposited there by the flow. Diamond It is said to be the world’s weakest Pokémon. No one knows why it has managed to survive. Pearl It is unable to swim against even slow-moving currents. It always splashes about for some reason. Platinum A MAGIKARP living for many years can leap a mountain using Splash. The move remains useless, though. HeartGold An underpowered, pathetic Pokémon. It may jump high on rare occasions, but usually not more than seven feet. SoulSilver For no reason, it jumps and splashes about, making it easy for predators like PIDGEOTTO to catch it mid-jump. Black White Black 2 White 2 A Magikarp living for many years can leap a mountain using Splash. The move remains useless, though. X It is virtually worthless in terms of both power and speed. It is the most weak and pathetic Pokémon in the world. Y In the distant past, it was somewhat stronger than the horribly weak descendants that exist today. Omega Ruby Magikarp is a pathetic excuse for a Pokémon that is only capable of flopping and splashing. This behavior prompted scientists to undertake research into it. Alpha Sapphire Magikarp is virtually useless in battle as it can only splash around. As a result, it is considered to be weak. However, it is actually a very hardy Pokémon that can survive in any body of water no matter how polluted it is. Sun Although weak and helpless, this Pokémon is incredibly fertile. They exist in such multitudes, you’ll soon grow tired of seeing them. Moon Its reckless leaps make it easy pickings for predators. On the bright side, many Pokémon enjoy longer life spans, thanks to Magikarp. 
Gyarados	130	Generation 1	Water Flying 		Atrocious Pokemon	 Intimidate Moxie  			21′4″ (6.50m) 		518.1 lbs (235.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Rarely seen in the wild. Huge and vicious, it is capable of destroying entire cities in a rage. Yellow Brutally vicious and enormously destructive. Known for totally destroying cities in ancient times. Gold They say that during past wars, GYARADOS would appear and leave blazing ruins in its wake. Silver Once it appears, it goes on a rampage. It remains enraged until it demolishes everything around it. Crystal It appears whenever there is world conflict, burning down any place it travels through. Ruby When MAGIKARP evolves into GYARADOS, its brain cells undergo a structural transformation. It is said that this transformation is to blame for this POKéMON’s wildly violent nature. Sapphire Once GYARADOS goes on a rampage, its ferociously violent blood doesn’t calm until it has burned everything down. There are records of this POKéMON’s rampages lasting a whole month. FireRed It has an extremely aggressive nature. The HYPER BEAM it shoots from its mouth totally incinerates all targets. LeafGreen Rarely seen in the wild. Huge and vicious, it is capable of destroying entire cities in a rage. Emerald It is an extremely vicious and violent POKéMON. When humans begin to fight, it will appear and burn everything to the ground with intensely hot flames. Diamond Once it appears, its rage never settles until it has razed the fields and mountains around it. Pearl In ancient literature, there is a record of a GYARADOS that razed a village when violence flared. Platinum Once it begins to rampage, a GYARADOS will burn everything down, even in a harsh storm. HeartGold They say that during past strife, GYARADOS would appear and leave blazing ruins in its wake. SoulSilver Once it appears, it goes on a rampage. It remains enraged until it demolishes everything around it. Black White Black 2 White 2 Once it begins to rampage, a Gyarados will burn everything down, even in a harsh storm. X In ancient literature, there is a record of a Gyarados that razed a village when violence flared. Y Rarely seen in the wild. Huge and vicious, it is capable of destroying entire cities in a rage. Omega Ruby When Magikarp evolves into Gyarados, its brain cells undergo a structural transformation. It is said that this transformation is to blame for this Pokémon’s wildly violent nature. Alpha Sapphire Once Gyarados goes on a rampage, its ferociously violent blood doesn’t calm until it has burned everything down. There are records of this Pokémon’s rampages lasting a whole month. Sun A tale is told of a town that angered Gyarados. Before the sun rose the next day, flames utterly consumed the town, leaving not a trace behind. Moon There are people who swear that any place Gyarados appears is fated for destruction. 
Lapras		131	Generation 1	Water Ice 		Transport Pokemon	 Shell Armor Water Absorb Hydration  	8′2″ (2.49m) 		485 lbs (220.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Ditto		132	Generation 1	Normal 			Transform Pokemon	 Limber Imposter  			1′0″ (0.30m) 		8.8 lbs (4.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Eevee		133	Generation 1	Normal 			Evolution Pokemon	 Adaptability Run Away Anticipation  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		14.3 lbs (6.5 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Its genetic code is irregular. It may mutate if it is exposed to radiation from element STONEs. Yellow Its genetic code is unstable, so it could evolve in a variety of ways. There are only a few alive. Gold It has the ability to alter the composition of its body to suit its surrounding environment. Silver Its irregularly configured DNA is affected by its surroundings. It evolves if its environment changes. Crystal Its ability to evolve into many forms allows it to adapt smoothly and perfectly to any environment. Ruby Sapphire EEVEE has an unstable genetic makeup that suddenly mutates due to the environment in which it lives. Radiation from various STONES causes this POKéMON to evolve. FireRed An extremely rare POKéMON that may evolve in a number of different ways depending on stimuli. LeafGreen Its genetic code is irregular. It may mutate if it is exposed to radiation from element STONES. Emerald An EEVEE has an unstable genetic makeup that suddenly mutates due to its environment. Radiation from various STONES causes this POKéMON to evolve. Diamond Pearl A rare Pokémon that adapts to harsh environments by taking on different evolutionary forms. Platinum Because its genetic makeup is irregular, it quickly changes its form due to a variety of causes. HeartGold It has the ability to alter the composition of its body to suit its surrounding environment. SoulSilver Its irregularly configured DNA is affected by its surroundings. It evolves if its environment changes. Black White Because its genetic makeup is irregular, it quickly changes its form due to a variety of causes. Black 2 White 2 Thanks to its unstable genetic makeup, this special Pokémon conceals many different possible evolutions. X A rare Pokémon that adapts to harsh environments by taking on different evolutionary forms. Y Thanks to its unstable genetic makeup, this special Pokémon conceals many different possible evolutions. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Eevee has an unstable genetic makeup that suddenly mutates due to the environment in which it lives. Radiation from various stones causes this Pokémon to evolve. Sun Possessing an unbalanced and unstable genetic makeup, it conceals many possible evolutions. Moon Current studies show it can evolve into an incredible eight different species of Pokémon. 
Vaporeon	134	Generation 1	Water 			Bubble Jet Pokemon	 Water Absorb Hydration  		3′3″ (0.99m) 		63.9 lbs (29.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Lives close to water. Its long tail is ridged with a fin which is often mistaken for a mermaid's. Yellow Its cell structure is similar to water molecules. It will melt away and become invisible in water. Gold When VAPOREON's fins begin to vibrate, it is a sign that rain will come within a few hours. Silver It prefers beautiful shores. With cells similar to water molecules, it could melt in water. Crystal As it uses the fins on the tip of its tail to swim, it blends with the water perfectly. Ruby Sapphire VAPOREON underwent a spontaneous mutation and grew fins and gills that allow it to live underwater. This POKéMON has the ability to freely control water. FireRed Its body’s cellular structure is similar to the molecular composition of water. It can melt invisibly in water. LeafGreen Lives close to water. Its long tail is ridged with a fin which is often mistaken for a mermaid’s. Emerald VAPOREON underwent a spontaneous mutation and grew fins and gills that allow them to live underwater. They have the ability to freely control water. Diamond Pearl It has evolved to be suitable for an aquatic life. It can invisibly melt away into water. Platinum Its cell composition is similar to water molecules. As a result, it can melt away into water. HeartGold When VAPOREON’s fins begin to vibrate, it is a sign that rain will come within a few hours. SoulSilver It prefers beautiful shores. With cells similar to water molecules, it could melt in water. Black White Its cell composition is similar to water molecules. As a result, it can melt away into water. Black 2 White 2 Its cell composition is similar to water molecules. As a result, it can’t be seen when it melts away into water. X It prefers beautiful shores. With cells similar to water molecules, it could melt in water. Y It has evolved to be suitable for an aquatic life. It can invisibly melt away into water. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Vaporeon underwent a spontaneous mutation and grew fins and gills that allow it to live underwater. This Pokémon has the ability to freely control water. Sun Its cells are composed of units much like water molecules. It lives close to water and is often mistaken for a mermaid. Moon Blending in with the water and erasing all signs of its presence, it patiently waits for its prey, fish Pokémon. 
Jolteon		135	Generation 1	Electric 		Lightning Pokemon	 Volt Absorb Quick Feet  		2′7″ (0.79m) 		54 lbs (24.5 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue It accumulates negative ions in the atmosphere to blast out 10000-volt lightning bolts. Yellow A sensitive POKéMON that easily becomes sad or angry. Every time its mood changes, it charges power. Gold It concentrates the weak electric charges emitted by its cells and launches wicked lightning bolts. Silver Every hair on its body starts to stand sharply on end if it becomes charged with electricity. Crystal The negatively charged ions generated in its fur create a constant sparking noise. Ruby Sapphire JOLTEON’s cells generate a low level of electricity. This power is amplified by the static electricity of its fur, enabling the POKéMON to drop thunderbolts. The bristling fur is made of electrically charged needles. FireRed If it is angered or startled, the fur all over its body bristles like sharp needles that pierce foes. LeafGreen It accumulates negative ions in the atmosphere to blast out 10,000-volt lightning bolts. Emerald Its cells generate weak power that is amplified by its fur’s static electricity to drop thunderbolts. The bristling fur is made of electrically charged needles. Diamond Pearl It controls 10,000-volt power and can raise all the fur on its body as if it were sharp needles. Platinum If agitated, it uses electricity to straighten out its fur and launch it in small bunches. HeartGold It concentrates the weak electric charges emitted by its cells and launches wicked lightning bolts. SoulSilver Every hair on its body starts to stand sharply on end if it becomes charged with electricity. Black White If agitated, it uses electricity to straighten out its fur and launch it in small bunches. Black 2 White 2 By storing electricity in its body, it can shoot its bristlelike fur like a barrage of missiles. X Every hair on its body starts to stand sharply on end if it becomes charged with electricity. Y It accumulates negative ions in the atmosphere to blast out 10,000-volt lightning bolts. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Jolteon’s cells generate a low level of electricity. This power is amplified by the static electricity of its fur, enabling the Pokémon to drop thunderbolts. The bristling fur is made of electrically charged needles. Sun They send out electrical charges of about 10,000 volts. Because they are high-strung, it can be difficult to grow close to them. Moon When its fur stands on end, that’s a sign it’s about to give off a jolt of electricity. Take care, as sometimes lightning strikes next to it, too. 
Flareon		136	Generation 1	Fire 			Flame Pokemon		 Flash Fire Guts  			2′11″ (0.89m) 		55.1 lbs (25.0 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue When storing thermal energy in its body, its temperature could soar to over 1600 degrees. Yellow It has a flame chamber inside its body. It inhales, then blows out fire that is over 3,000F degrees. Gold It stores some of the air it inhales in its internal flame pouch, which heats it to over 3,000 degrees. Silver It fluffs out its fur collar to cool down its body temperature, which can reach 1,650 degrees. Crystal Once it has stored up enough heat, this POKéMON's body temperature can reach up to 1700 degrees. Ruby Sapphire FLAREON’s fluffy fur has a functional purpose - it releases heat into the air so that its body does not get excessively hot. This POKéMON’s body temperature can rise to a maximum of 1,650 degrees F. FireRed It has a flame bag inside its body. After inhaling deeply, it blows out flames of nearly 3,100 degrees Fahrenheit. LeafGreen When storing thermal energy in its body, its temperature can soar to over 1,600 degrees Fahrenheit. Emerald FLAREON’s fluffy fur releases heat into the air so that its body does not get excessively hot. Its body temperature can rise to a maximum of 1,650 degrees F. Diamond Pearl It has a flame sac in its body. Its body temperature tops 1,650 degrees Fahrenheit before battle. Platinum Inhaled air is heated in the flame sac in its body to an intense fire over 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit. HeartGold It stores some of the air it inhales in its internal flame pouch, which heats it to over 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit. SoulSilver It fluffs out its fur collar to cool down its body temperature, which can reach 1,650 degrees Fahrenheit. Black White Inhaled air is heated in the flame sac in its body to an intense fire over 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit. Black 2 White 2 Inhaled air is carried to its flame sac, heated, and exhaled as fire that reaches over 3,000 degrees F. X It has a flame sac in its body. Its body temperature tops 1,650 degrees Fahrenheit before battle. Y It has a flame bag inside its body. After inhaling deeply, it blows out flames of nearly 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Flareon’s fluffy fur has a functional purpose—it releases heat into the air so that its body does not get excessively hot. This Pokémon’s body temperature can rise to a maximum of 1,650 degrees Fahrenheit. Sun When it catches prey or finds berries, it breathes fire on them until they’re well done, and then it gobbles them up. Moon Its average body temperature is between 1,300 and 1,500 degrees Fahrenheit. In its internal flame sac, temperatures reach 3,000 degrees. 
Porygon		137	Generation 1	Normal 			Virtual Pokemon		 Download Trace Analytic  		2′7″ (0.79m) 		80.5 lbs (36.5 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue A POKéMON that consists entirely of programming code. Capable of moving freely in cyberspace. Yellow The only POKéMON people anticipate can fly into space. None has managed the feat yet, however. Gold It is a manmade POKéMON. Since it doesn't breathe, people are eager to try it in any environment. Silver A manmade POKéMON that came about as a result of research. It is programmed with only basic motions. Crystal An artificial POKéMON created due to extensive research, it can perform only what is in its program. Ruby Sapphire PORYGON is capable of reverting itself entirely back to program data and entering cyberspace. This POKéMON is copy-protected so it cannot be duplicated by copying. FireRed Using the most advanced technologies, scientists finally succeeded in making the first artificial POKéMON. LeafGreen A POKéMON that consists entirely of programming code. It is capable of moving freely in cyberspace. Emerald It is capable of reverting itself entirely back to program data in order to enter cyberspace. A PORYGON is copy-protected so it cannot be duplicated. Diamond Pearl The world’s first artificially created Pokémon. It can travel through electronic space. Platinum A man-made Pokémon created using advanced scientific means. It can move freely in cyberspace. HeartGold It is a manmade Pokémon. Since it doesn’t breathe, people are eager to try it in any environment. SoulSilver A manmade Pokémon that came about as a result of research. It is programmed with only basic motions. Black White Black 2 White 2 A man-made Pokémon created using advanced scientific means. It can move freely in cyberspace. X A man-made Pokémon that came about as a result of research. It is programmed with only basic motions. Y A Pokémon that consists entirely of programming code. It is capable of moving freely in cyberspace. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Porygon is capable of reverting itself entirely back to program data and entering cyberspace. This Pokémon is copy protected so it cannot be duplicated by copying. Sun Roughly 20 years ago, it was artificially created, utilizing the latest technology of the time. Moon It can convert its body into digital data, which enables it to enter cyberspace. 
Omanyte		138	Generation 1	Rock Water 		Spiral Pokemon		 Shell Armor Swift Swim Weak Armor  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		16.5 lbs (7.5 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Although long extinct, in rare cases, it can be genetically resurrected from fossils. Yellow An ancient POKéMON that was recovered from a fossil. It swims by cleverly twisting its 10 tentacles about. Gold Revived from an ancient fossil, this POKéMON uses air stored in its shell to sink and rise in water. Silver This POKéMON from ancient times is said to have navigated the sea by adeptly twisting its 10 tentacles. Crystal In prehistoric times, it swam on the sea floor, eating plankton. Its fossils are sometimes found. Ruby Sapphire OMANYTE is one of the ancient and long-since-extinct POKéMON that have been regenerated from fossils by people. If attacked by an enemy, it withdraws itself inside its hard shell. FireRed A prehistoric POKéMON that lived in the primordial sea, it swims by twisting its 10 tentacles about. LeafGreen Although long extinct, in rare cases, it can be genetically regenerated from fossils. Emerald One of the ancient and long-since-extinct POKéMON that have been regenerated from fossils by humans. If attacked, it withdraws into its hard shell. Diamond Pearl Platinum A Pokémon that was resurrected from a fossil using modern science. It swam in ancient seas. HeartGold Revived from an ancient fossil, this Pokémon uses air stored in its shell to sink and rise in water. SoulSilver This Pokémon from ancient times is said to have navigated the sea by adeptly twisting its 10 tentacles. Black White Black 2 White 2 A Pokémon that was resurrected from a fossil using modern science. It swam in ancient seas. X A prehistoric Pokémon that lived in the primordial sea, it swims by twisting its 10 tentacles about. Y Revived from an ancient fossil, this Pokémon uses air stored in its shell to sink and rise in water. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Omanyte is one of the ancient and long-since-extinct Pokémon that have been regenerated from fossils by people. If attacked by an enemy, it withdraws itself inside its hard shell. 
Omastar		139	Generation 1	Rock Water 		Spiral Pokemon		 Shell Armor Swift Swim Weak Armor  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		77.2 lbs (35.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue A prehistoric POKéMON that died out when its heavy shell made it impossible to catch prey. Yellow Sharp beaks ring its mouth. Its shell was too big for it to move freely, so it became extinct. Gold Apparently, it cracked SHELLDER's shell with its sharp fangs and sucked out the insides. Silver Once wrapped around its prey, it never lets go. It eats the prey by tearing at it with sharp fangs. Crystal Its heavy shell allowed it to reach only nearby food. This could be the reason it is extinct. Ruby Sapphire OMASTAR uses its tentacles to capture its prey. It is believed to have become extinct because its shell grew too large and heavy, causing its movements to become too slow and ponderous. FireRed Its tentacles are highly developed as if they are hands and feet. As soon as it ensnares prey, it bites. LeafGreen Despite having strong fangs and tentacles, it went extinct when its heavy shell made it unable to catch prey. Emerald An OMASTAR uses its tentacles to capture its prey. It is believed to have become extinct because its shell grew too large, making its movements slow and ponderous. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is thought that this Pokémon became extinct because its spiral shell grew too large. HeartGold Apparently, it cracked SHELLDER’s shell with its sharp fangs and sucked out the insides. SoulSilver Once wrapped around its prey, it never lets go. It eats the prey by tearing at it with sharp fangs. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is thought that this Pokémon became extinct because its spiral shell grew too large. X Its tentacles are highly developed as if they are hands and feet. As soon as it ensnares prey, it bites. Y Once wrapped around its prey, it never lets go. It eats the prey by tearing at it with sharp fangs. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Omastar uses its tentacles to capture its prey. It is believed to have become extinct because its shell grew too large and heavy, causing its movements to become too slow and ponderous. 
Kabuto		140	Generation 1	Rock Water 		Shellfish Pokemon	 Battle Armor Swift Swim Weak Armor  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		25.4 lbs (11.5 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue A POKéMON that was resurrected from a fossil found in what was once the ocean floor eons ago. Yellow A POKéMON that was recovered from a fossil. It uses the eyes on its back while hiding on the sea floor. Gold On rare occasions, some have been found as fossils which they became while hiding on the ocean floor. Silver This POKéMON lived in ancient times. On rare occasions, it has been discovered as a living fossil. Crystal Three hundred million years ago, it hid on the sea floor. It also has eyes on its back that glow. Ruby Sapphire KABUTO is a POKéMON that has been regenerated from a fossil. However, in extremely rare cases, living examples have been discovered. The POKéMON has not changed at all for 300 million years. FireRed This POKéMON was regenerated from the fossil of an ancient creature. It protects itself with a hard shell. LeafGreen A POKéMON that was regenerated from a fossil found in what was once the ocean floor long ago. Emerald It is a POKéMON that has been regenerated from a fossil. However, in rare cases, living examples have been discovered. KABUTO have not changed for 300 million years. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is thought to have inhabited beaches 300 million years ago. It is protected by a stiff shell. HeartGold On rare occasions, some have been found as fossils which they became while hiding on the ocean floor. SoulSilver This Pokémon lived in ancient times. On rare occasions, it has been discovered as a living fossil. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is thought to have inhabited beaches 300 million years ago. It is protected by a stiff shell. X It is thought to have inhabited beaches 300 million years ago. It is protected by a stiff shell. Y This Pokémon was regenerated from the fossil of an ancient creature. It protects itself with a hard shell. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Kabuto is a Pokémon that has been regenerated from a fossil. However, in extremely rare cases, living examples have been discovered. The Pokémon has not changed at all for 300 million years. 
Kabutops	141	Generation 1	Rock Water 		Shellfish Pokemon	 Battle Armor Swift Swim Weak Armor  	4′3″ (1.30m) 		89.3 lbs (40.5 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Its sleek shape is perfect for swimming. It slashes prey with its claws and drains the body fluids. Yellow A slim and fast swimmer. It slices its prey with its sharp sickles and drinks the body fluids. Gold In the water, it tucks in its limbs to become more compact, then it wiggles its shell to swim fast. Silver With sharp claws, this ferocious, ancient POKéMON rips apart prey and sucks their body fluids. Crystal It was able to swim quickly through the water by compactly folding up its razor-sharp sickles. Ruby Sapphire KABUTOPS swam underwater to hunt for its prey in ancient times. The POKéMON was apparently evolving from being a water-dweller to living on land as evident from the beginnings of change in its gills and legs. FireRed It swims freely through water. It catches prey with its scythe-like arms and drains the victim’s fluids. LeafGreen Its sleek shape is perfect for swimming. It slashes prey with its claws and drains their fluids. Emerald KABUTOPS once swam underwater to hunt for prey. It was apparently evolving from being a water dweller to living on land as evident from changes in its gills and legs. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is thought that this Pokémon came onto land because its prey adapted to life on land. HeartGold In the water, it tucks in its limbs to become more compact, then it wiggles its shell to swim fast. SoulSilver With sharp claws, this ferocious, ancient Pokémon rips apart prey and sucks their body fluids. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is thought that this Pokémon came onto land because its prey adapted to life on land. X In the water, it tucks in its limbs to become more compact, then it wiggles its shell to swim fast. Y A slim and fast swimmer. It slices its prey with its sharp sickles and drinks the body fluids. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Kabutops swam underwater to hunt for its prey in ancient times. The Pokémon was apparently evolving from being a water dweller to living on land as evident from the beginnings of change in its gills and legs. 
Aerodactyl	142	Generation 1	Rock Flying 		Fossil Pokemon		 Pressure Rock Head Unnerve  	5′11″ (1.80m) 		130.1 lbs (59.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Snorlax		143	Generation 1	Normal 			Sleeping Pokemon	 Immunity Thick Fat Gluttony  	6′11″ (2.11m) 		1014.1 lbs (460.0 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue Very lazy. Just eats and sleeps. As its rotund bulk builds, it becomes steadily more slothful. Yellow Will eat anything, even if the food happens to be a little moldy. It never gets an upset stomach. Gold What sounds like its cry may actually be its snores or the rumblings of its hungry belly. Silver Its stomach's digestive juices can dissolve any kind of poison. It can even eat things off the ground. Crystal This POKéMON's stomach is so strong, even eating moldy or rotten food will not affect it. Ruby Sapphire SNORLAX’s typical day consists of nothing more than eating and sleeping. It is such a docile POKéMON that there are children who use its expansive belly as a place to play. FireRed It is not satisfied unless it eats over 880 pounds of food every day. When it is done eating, it goes promptly to sleep. LeafGreen Very lazy. Just eats and sleeps. As its rotund bulk builds, it becomes steadily more slothful. Emerald SNORLAX’s typical day consists of nothing more than eating and sleeping. It is such a docile POKéMON that there are children who use its big belly as a place to play. Diamond Its stomach can digest any kind of food, even if it happens to be moldy or rotten. Pearl It stops eating only to sleep. It doesn’t feel full unless it eats nearly 900 pounds a day. Platinum When its belly is full, it becomes too lethargic to even lift a finger, so it is safe to bounce on its belly. HeartGold What sounds like its cry may actually be its snores or the rumblings of its hungry belly. SoulSilver Its stomach’s digestive juices can dissolve any kind of poison. It can even eat things off the ground. Black White Black 2 White 2 When its belly is full, it becomes too lethargic to even lift a finger, so it is safe to bounce on its belly. X It is not satisfied unless it eats over 880 pounds of food every day. When it is done eating, it goes promptly to sleep. Y Its stomach can digest any kind of food, even if it happens to be moldy or rotten. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Snorlax’s typical day consists of nothing more than eating and sleeping. It is such a docile Pokémon that there are children who use its expansive belly as a place to play. Sun Its stomach is said to be incomparably strong. Even Muk’s poison is nothing more than a hint of spice on Snorlax’s tongue. Moon It eats nearly 900 pounds of food every day. It starts nodding off while eating—and continues to eat even while it’s asleep. 
Articuno	144	Generation 1	Ice Flying 		Freeze Pokemon		 Pressure Snow Cloak  			5′7″ (1.70m) 		122.1 lbs (55.4 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Zapdos		145	Generation 1	Electric Flying 		Electric Pokemon	 Pressure Static  			5′3″ (1.60m) 		116 lbs (52.6 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Moltres		146	Generation 1	Fire Flying 		Flame Pokemon		 Pressure Flame Body  			6′7″ (2.01m) 		132.3 lbs (60.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Dratini		147	Generation 1	Dragon 			Dragon Pokemon		 Shed Skin Marvel Scale  		5′11″ (1.80m) 		7.3 lbs (3.3 kg) 		Basic form
Red Blue Long considered a mythical POKéMON until recently when a small colony was found living underwater. Yellow The existence of this mythical POKéMON was only recently confirmed by a fisherman who caught one. Gold It is born large to start with. It repeatedly sheds its skin as it steadily grows longer. Silver This POKéMON is full of life energy. It continually sheds its skin and grows steadily larger. Crystal It sheds many layers of skin as it grows larger. During this process, it is protected by a rapid waterfall. Ruby Sapphire DRATINI continually molts and sloughs off its old skin. It does so because the life energy within its body steadily builds to reach uncontrollable levels. FireRed Even the young can exceed 6.5 feet in length. It grows larger by repeatedly shedding skin. LeafGreen Long considered a mythical POKéMON until recently, when a small colony was found living underwater. Emerald A DRATINI continually molts and sloughs off its old skin. It does so because the life energy within its body steadily builds to reach uncontrollable levels. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is called the “Mirage Pokémon” because so few have seen it. Its shed skin has been found. HeartGold It is born large to start with. It repeatedly sheds its skin as it steadily grows longer. SoulSilver This Pokémon is full of life energy. It continually sheds its skin and grows steadily larger. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is called the “Mirage Pokémon” because so few have seen it. Its shed skin has been found. X It is called the “Mirage Pokémon” because so few have seen it. Its shed skin has been found. Y This Pokémon is full of life energy. It continually sheds its skin and grows steadily larger. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Dratini continually molts and sloughs off its old skin. It does so because the life energy within its body steadily builds to reach uncontrollable levels. Sun It grows by molting repeatedly. Boots made from the tanned cast-off skin are a super luxury item. Moon After a 10-hour struggle, a fisherman was able to pull one up and confirm its existence. 
Dragonair	148	Generation 1	Dragon 			Dragon Pokemon		 Shed Skin Marvel Scale  		13′1″ (3.99m) 		36.4 lbs (16.5 kg) 		First stage
Red Blue A mystical POKéMON that exudes a gentle aura. Has the ability to change climate conditions. Yellow According to a witness, its body was surrounded by a strange aura that gave it a mystical look. Gold They say that if it emits an aura from its whole body, the weather will begin to change instantly. Silver Its crystalline orbs appear to give this POKéMON the power to freely control the weather. Crystal It is called the divine POKéMON. When its entire body brightens slightly, the weather changes. Ruby Sapphire DRAGONAIR stores an enormous amount of energy inside its body. It is said to alter weather conditions in its vicinity by discharging energy from the crystals on its neck and tail. FireRed It is said to live in seas and lakes. Even though it has no wings, it has been seen flying occasionally. LeafGreen A mystical POKéMON that exudes a gentle aura. It is said to have the ability to change the weather. Emerald A DRAGONAIR stores an enormous amount of energy inside its body. It is said to alter the weather around it by loosing energy from the crystals on its neck and tail. Diamond Pearl Platinum If its body takes on an aura, the weather changes instantly. It is said to live in seas and lakes. HeartGold They say that if it emits an aura from its whole body, the weather will begin to change instantly. SoulSilver Its crystalline orbs appear to give this Pokémon the power to freely control the weather. Black White Black 2 White 2 If its body takes on an aura, the weather changes instantly. It is said to live in seas and lakes. X Its crystalline orbs appear to give this Pokémon the power to freely control the weather. Y A mystical Pokémon that exudes a gentle aura. It is said to have the ability to change the weather. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Dragonair stores an enormous amount of energy inside its body. It is said to alter weather conditions in its vicinity by discharging energy from the crystals on its neck and tail. Sun It has long been thought that its crystalline orbs are imbued with the power to control the weather. Moon From time immemorial, it has been venerated by agricultural peoples as an entity able to control the weather. 
Dragonite	149	Generation 1	Dragon Flying 		Dragon Pokemon		 Inner Focus Multiscale  		7′3″ (2.21m) 		463 lbs (210.0 kg) 		Second stage
Red Blue An extremely rarely seen marine POKéMON. Its intelligence is said to match that of humans. Yellow It is said that this POKéMON lives somewhere in the sea and that it flies. However, it is only a rumor. Gold It is said that this POKéMON constantly flies over the immense seas and rescues drowning people. Silver This marine POKéMON has an impressive build that lets it freely fly over raging seas without trouble. Crystal It is said that somewhere in the ocean lies an island where these gather. Only they live there. Ruby Sapphire DRAGONITE is capable of circling the globe in just sixteen hours. It is a kindhearted POKéMON that leads lost and foundering ships in a storm to the safety of land. FireRed It can fly in spite of its big and bulky physique. It circles the globe in just 16 hours. LeafGreen Only a very few people ever see this POKéMON. Its intelligence is said to match that of humans. Emerald It can circle the globe in just 16 hours. It is a kindhearted POKéMON that leads lost and foundering ships in a storm to the safety of land. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is said to make its home somewhere in the sea. It guides crews of shipwrecks to shore. HeartGold It is said that this Pokémon constantly flies over the immense seas and rescues drowning people. SoulSilver This marine Pokémon has an impressive build that lets it freely fly over raging seas without trouble. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is said to make its home somewhere in the sea. It guides crews of shipwrecks to shore. X It can fly in spite of its big and bulky physique. It circles the globe in just 16 hours. Y It is said to make its home somewhere in the sea. It guides crews of shipwrecks to shore. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Dragonite is capable of circling the globe in just 16 hours. It is a kindhearted Pokémon that leads lost and foundering ships in a storm to the safety of land. Sun This Pokémon saved a shipwrecked man, taking him to a remote island—a paradise occupied solely by Dragonite. Moon Incur the wrath of this normally calm Pokémon at your peril, because it will smash everything to smithereens before it’s satisfied. 
Mewtwo		150	Generation 1	Psychic 		Genetic Pokemon		 Pressure Unnerve  			6′7″ (2.01m) 		269 lbs (122.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Mew		151	Generation 1	Psychic 		New Species Pokemon	 Synchronize 				1′4″ (0.41m) 		8.8 lbs (4.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Chikorita	152	Generation 2	Grass 			Leaf Pokemon		 Overgrow Leaf Guard  			2′11″ (0.89m) 		14.1 lbs (6.4 kg) 		Basic form
Gold A sweet aroma gently wafts from the leaf on its head. It is docile and loves to soak up the sun's rays. Silver Its pleasantly aromatic leaves have the ability to check the humidity and temperature. Crystal It loves to bask in the sunlight. It uses the leaf on its head to seek out warm places. Ruby Sapphire In battle, CHIKORITA waves its leaf around to keep the foe at bay. However, a sweet fragrance also wafts from the leaf, becalming the battling POKéMON and creating a cozy, friendly atmosphere all around. FireRed Its pleasantly aromatic leaves have the ability to check the humidity and temperature. LeafGreen A sweet aroma gently wafts from the leaf on its head. It is docile and loves to soak up the sun’s rays. Emerald It waves its leaf around to keep foes at bay. However, a sweet fragrance also wafts from the leaf, creating a friendly atmosphere that becalms the battlers. Diamond Pearl Platinum It uses the leaf on its head to determine the temperature and humidity. It loves to sunbathe. HeartGold A sweet aroma gently wafts from the leaf on its head. It is docile and loves to soak up sunrays. SoulSilver Its pleasantly aromatic leaf has the ability to check humidity and temperature. Black White Black 2 White 2 It uses the leaf on its head to determine the temperature and humidity. It loves to sunbathe. X A sweet aroma gently wafts from the leaf on its head. It is docile and loves to soak up sun rays. Y It uses the leaf on its head to determine the temperature and humidity. It loves to sunbathe. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire In battle, Chikorita waves its leaf around to keep the foe at bay. However, a sweet fragrance also wafts from the leaf, becalming the battling Pokémon and creating a cozy, friendly atmosphere all around. 
Bayleef		153	Generation 2	Grass 			Leaf Pokemon		 Overgrow Leaf Guard  			3′11″ (1.19m) 		34.8 lbs (15.8 kg) 		First stage
Gold The scent of spices comes from around its neck. Somehow, sniffing it makes you want to fight. Silver A spicy aroma emanates from around its neck. The aroma acts as a stimulant to restore health. Crystal The scent that wafts from the leaves on its neck causes anyone who smells it to become energetic. Ruby Sapphire BAYLEEF’s neck is ringed by curled-up leaves. Inside each tubular leaf is a small shoot of a tree. The fragrance of this shoot makes people peppy. FireRed A spicy aroma emanates from around its neck. The aroma acts as a stimulant to restore health. LeafGreen The scent of spices comes from around its neck. Somehow, sniffing it makes you want to fight. Emerald A BAYLEEF’s neck is ringed by curled-up leaves. Inside each leaf is a small tree shoot. The fragrance of this shoot makes people peppy. Diamond Pearl Platinum The buds that ring its neck give off a spicy aroma that perks people up. HeartGold The scent of spices comes from around its neck. Somehow, sniffing it makes you want to fight. SoulSilver A spicy aroma emanates from around its neck. The aroma acts as a stimulant to restore health. Black White Black 2 White 2 The buds that ring its neck give off a spicy aroma that perks people up. X A spicy aroma emanates from around its neck. The aroma acts as a stimulant to restore health. Y The buds that ring its neck give off a spicy aroma that perks people up. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Bayleef’s neck is ringed by curled-up leaves. Inside each tubular leaf is a small shoot of a tree. The fragrance of this shoot makes people peppy. 
Meganium	154	Generation 2	Grass 			Herb Pokemon		 Overgrow Leaf Guard  			5′11″ (1.80m) 		221.6 lbs (100.5 kg) 		Second stage
Gold The aroma that rises from its petals contains a substance that calms aggressive feelings. Silver MEGANIUM's breath has the power to revive dead grass and plants. It can make them healthy again. Crystal Anyone who stands beside it becomes refreshed, just as if they were relaxing in a sunny forest. Ruby Sapphire The fragrance of MEGANIUM’s flower soothes and calms emotions. In battle, this POKéMON gives off more of its becalming scent to blunt the foe’s fighting spirit. FireRed MEGANIUM’s breath has the power to revive dead grass and plants. It can make them healthy again. LeafGreen The aroma that rises from its petals contains a substance that calms aggressive feelings. Emerald The fragrance of a MEGANIUM’s flower soothes and calms emotions. In battle, it gives off more of its becalming scent to blunt the foe’s fighting spirit. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its breath has the fantastic ability to revive dead plants and flowers. HeartGold The aroma that rises from its petals contains a substance that calms aggressive feelings. SoulSilver MEGANIUM’s breath has the power to revive dead grass and plants. It can make them healthy again. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its breath has the fantastic ability to revive dead plants and flowers. X The aroma that rises from its petals contains a substance that calms aggressive feelings. Y Meganium’s breath has the power to revive dead grass and plants. It can make them healthy again. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire The fragrance of Meganium’s flower soothes and calms emotions. In battle, this Pokémon gives off more of its becalming scent to blunt the foe’s fighting spirit. 
Cyndaquil	155	Generation 2	Fire 			Fire Mouse Pokemon	 Blaze Flash Fire  			1′8″ (0.51m) 		17.4 lbs (7.9 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It is timid, and always curls itself up in a ball. If attacked, it flares up its back for protection. Silver It usually stays hunched over. If it is angry or surprised, it shoots flames out of its back. Crystal The fire that spouts from its back burns hottest when it is angry. The flaring flames intimidate foes. Ruby Sapphire CYNDAQUIL protects itself by flaring up the flames on its back. The flames are vigorous if the POKéMON is angry. However, if it is tired, the flames splutter fitfully with incomplete combustion. FireRed It usually stays hunched over. If it is angry or surprised, it shoots flames out of its back. LeafGreen It is timid and always curls itself up in a ball. If attacked, it flares up its back for protection. Emerald It flares flames from its back to protect itself. The fire burns vigorously if the POKéMON is angry. When it is tired, it sputters with incomplete combustion. Diamond Pearl Platinum It has a timid nature. If it is startled, the flames on its back burn more vigorously. HeartGold It is timid, and always curls itself up in a ball. If attacked, it flares up its back for protection. SoulSilver It usually stays hunched over. If it is angry or surprised, it shoots flames out of its back. Black White Black 2 White 2 It has a timid nature. If it is startled, the flames on its back burn more vigorously. X It is timid and always curls itself up in a ball. If attacked, it flares up its back for protection. Y It has a timid nature. If it is startled, the flames on its back burn more vigorously. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Cyndaquil protects itself by flaring up the flames on its back. The flames are vigorous if the Pokémon is angry. However, if it is tired, the flames splutter fitfully with incomplete combustion. 
Quilava		156	Generation 2	Fire 			Volcano Pokemon		 Blaze Flash Fire  			2′11″ (0.89m) 		41.9 lbs (19.0 kg) 		First stage
Gold Be careful if it turns its back during battle. It means that it will attack with the fire on its back. Silver This POKéMON is fully covered by nonflammable fur. It can withstand any kind of fire attack. Crystal Before battle, it turns its back on its opponent to demonstrate how ferociously its fire blazes. Ruby Sapphire QUILAVA keeps its foes at bay with the intensity of its flames and gusts of superheated air. This POKéMON applies its outstanding nimbleness to dodge attacks even while scorching the foe with flames. FireRed This POKéMON is fully covered by nonflammable fur. It can withstand any kind of fire attack. LeafGreen Be careful if it turns its back during battle. It means that it will attack with the fire on its back. Emerald It intimidates foes with intense gusts of flames and superheated air. Its quick nimbleness lets it dodge attacks even while scorching an enemy. Diamond Pearl Platinum It intimidates foes with the heat of its flames. The fire burns more strongly when it readies to fight. HeartGold Be careful if it turns its back during battle. It means that it will attack with the fire on its back. SoulSilver This Pokémon is fully covered by nonflammable fur. It can withstand any kind of fire attack. Black White Black 2 White 2 It intimidates foes with the heat of its flames. The fire burns more strongly when it readies to fight. X Before battle, it turns its back on its opponent to demonstrate how ferociously its fire blazes. Y Be careful if it turns its back during battle. It means that it will attack with the fire on its back. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Quilava keeps its foes at bay with the intensity of its flames and gusts of superheated air. This Pokémon applies its outstanding nimbleness to dodge attacks even while scorching the foe with flames. 
Typhlosion	157	Generation 2	Fire 			Volcano Pokemon		 Blaze Flash Fire  			5′7″ (1.70m) 		175.3 lbs (79.5 kg) 		Second stage
Gold If its rage peaks, it becomes so hot that anything that touches it will instantly go up in flames. Silver It has a secret, devastating move. It rubs its blaz ing fur together to cause huge explosions. Crystal When heat from its body causes the air around it to shimmer, this is a sign that it is ready to battle. Ruby Sapphire TYPHLOSION obscures itself behind a shimmering heat haze that it creates using its intensely hot flames. This POKéMON creates blazing explosive blasts that burn everything to cinders. FireRed It has a secret, devastating move. It rubs its blazing fur together to cause huge explosions. LeafGreen If its rage peaks, it becomes so hot that anything that touches it will instantly go up in flames. Emerald It can hide behind a shimmering heat haze that it creates using its intense flames. TYPHLOSION create blazing explosive blasts that burn everything to cinders. Diamond Pearl Platinum It attacks using blasts of fire. It creates heat shimmers with intense fire to hide itself. HeartGold If its rage peaks, it becomes so hot that anything that touches it will instantly go up in flames. SoulSilver It has a secret, devastating move. It rubs its blazing fur together to cause huge explosions. Black White Black 2 White 2 It attacks using blasts of fire. It creates heat shimmers with intense fire to hide itself. X If its rage peaks, it becomes so hot that anything that touches it will instantly go up in flames. Y It has a secret, devastating move. It rubs its blazing fur together to cause huge explosions. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Typhlosion obscures itself behind a shimmering heat haze that it creates using its intensely hot flames. This Pokémon creates blazing explosive blasts that burn everything to cinders. 
Totodile	158	Generation 2	Water 			Big Jaw Pokemon		 Torrent Sheer Force  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		20.9 lbs (9.5 kg) 		Basic form
Gold Its well-developed jaws are powerful and capable of crushing anything. Even its trainer must be careful. Silver It is small but rough and tough. It won't hesitate to take a bite out of anything that moves. Crystal This rough critter chomps at any moving object it sees. Turning your back on it is not recommended. Ruby Sapphire Despite the smallness of its body, TOTODILE’s jaws are very powerful. While the POKéMON may think it is just playfully nipping, its bite has enough power to cause serious injury. FireRed It is small but rough and tough. It won’t hesitate to take a bite out of anything that moves. LeafGreen Its well-developed jaws are powerful and capable of crushing anything. Even its TRAINER must be careful. Emerald Despite its small body, TOTODILE’s jaws are very powerful. While it may think it is just playfully nipping, its bite has enough strength to cause serious injury. Diamond Pearl Platinum It has the habit of biting anything with its developed jaws. Even its Trainer needs to be careful. HeartGold Its powerful, well-developed jaws are capable of crushing anything. Even its Trainer must be careful. SoulSilver It is small but rough and tough. It won’t hesitate to take a bite out of anything that moves. Black White Black 2 White 2 It has the habit of biting anything with its developed jaws. Even its Trainer needs to be careful. X It is small but rough and tough. It won’t hesitate to take a bite out of anything that moves. Y Its powerful, well-developed jaws are capable of crushing anything. Even its Trainer must be careful. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Despite the smallness of its body, Totodile’s jaws are very powerful. While the Pokémon may think it is just playfully nipping, its bite has enough power to cause serious injury. 
Croconaw	159	Generation 2	Water 			Big Jaw Pokemon		 Torrent Sheer Force  			3′7″ (1.09m) 		55.1 lbs (25.0 kg) 		First stage
Gold If it loses a fang, a new one grows back in its place. There are always 48 fangs lining its mouth. Silver It opens its huge jaws wide when attacking. If it loses any fangs while biting, they grow back in. Crystal The tips of its fangs are slanted backward. Once those fangs clamp down, the prey has no hope of escape. Ruby Sapphire Once CROCONAW has clamped its jaws on its foe, it will absolutely not let go. Because the tips of its fangs are forked back like barbed fishhooks, they become impossible to remove when they have sunk in. FireRed It opens its huge jaws wide when attacking. If it loses any fangs while biting, they grow back in. LeafGreen If it loses a fang, a new one grows back in its place. There are always 48 fangs lining its mouth. Emerald Once its jaws clamp down on its foe, it will absolutely not let go. Because the tips of its fangs are forked back like fishhooks, they become irremovably embedded. Diamond Pearl Platinum Once it bites down, it won’t let go until it loses its fangs. New fangs quickly grow into place. HeartGold If it loses a fang, a new one grows back in its place. There are always 48 fangs lining its mouth. SoulSilver It opens its huge jaws wide when attacking. If it loses any fangs while biting, they grow back in. Black White Black 2 White 2 Once it bites down, it won’t let go until it loses its fangs. New fangs quickly grow into place. X If it loses a fang, a new one grows back in its place. There are always 48 fangs lining its mouth. Y Once it bites down, it won’t let go until it loses its fangs. New fangs quickly grow into place. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Once Croconaw has clamped its jaws on its foe, it will absolutely not let go. Because the tips of its fangs are forked back like barbed fishhooks, they become impossible to remove when they have sunk in. 
Feraligatr	160	Generation 2	Water 			Big Jaw Pokemon		 Torrent Sheer Force  			7′7″ (2.31m) 		195.8 lbs (88.8 kg) 		Second stage
Gold When it bites with its massive and powerful jaws, it shakes its head and savagely tears its victim up. Silver It is hard for it to support its own weight out of water, so it gets down on all fours. But it moves fast. Crystal Although it has a massive body, its powerful hind legs enable it to move quickly, even on the ground. Ruby Sapphire FERALIGATR intimidates its foes by opening its huge mouth. In battle, it will kick the ground hard with its thick and powerful hind legs to charge at the foe at an incredible speed. FireRed It is hard for it to support its own weight out of water, so it gets down on all fours. But it moves fast. LeafGreen When it bites with its massive and powerful jaws, it shakes its head and savagely tears up its victim. Emerald It opens its huge mouth to intimidate enemies. In battle, it runs using its thick and powerful hind legs to charge the foe with incredible speed. Diamond Pearl Platinum It usually moves slowly, but it goes at blinding speed when it attacks and bites prey. HeartGold When it bites with its massive and powerful jaws, it shakes its head and savagely tears its victim up. SoulSilver It is hard for it to support its weight out of water, so it sometimes gets down on all fours. But it moves fast. Black White Black 2 White 2 It usually moves slowly, but it goes at blinding speed when it attacks and bites prey. X It usually moves slowly, but it goes at blinding speed when it attacks and bites prey. Y When it bites with its massive and powerful jaws, it shakes its head and savagely tears its victim up. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Feraligatr intimidates its foes by opening its huge mouth. In battle, it will kick the ground hard with its thick and powerful hind legs to charge at the foe at an incredible speed. 
Sentret		161	Generation 2	Normal 			Scout Pokemon		 Keen Eye Run Away Frisk  		2′7″ (0.79m) 		13.2 lbs (6.0 kg) 		Basic form
Gold A very cautious POKéMON, it raises itself up using its tail to get a better view of its surroundings. Silver It stands on its tail so it can see a long way. If it spots an enemy, it cries loudly to warn its kind. Crystal When acting as a lookout, it warns others of danger by screeching and hitting the ground with its tail. Ruby Sapphire When SENTRET sleeps, it does so while another stands guard. The sentry wakes the others at the first sign of danger. When this POKéMON becomes separated from its pack, it becomes incapable of sleep due to fear. FireRed It stands on its tail so it can see a long way. If it spots an enemy, it cries loudly to warn its kind. LeafGreen A very cautious POKéMON, it raises itself up using its tail to get a better view of its surroundings. Emerald They take turns standing guard when it is time to sleep. The sentry awakens the others if it senses danger. If one becomes separated, it turns sleepless with fear. Diamond Pearl Platinum It has a very nervous nature. It stands up high on its tail so it can scan wide areas. HeartGold A very cautious Pokémon, it raises itself up using its tail to get a better view of its surroundings. SoulSilver It stands on its tail so it can see a long way. If it spots an enemy, it cries loudly to warn its kind. Black White Black 2 White 2 It has a very nervous nature. It stands up high on its tail so it can scan wide areas. X When acting as a lookout, it warns others of danger by screeching and hitting the ground with its tail. Y It stands on its tail so it can see a long way. If it spots an enemy, it cries loudly to warn its kind. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire When Sentret sleeps, it does so while another stands guard. The sentry wakes the others at the first sign of danger. When this Pokémon becomes separated from its pack, it becomes incapable of sleep due to fear. 
Furret		162	Generation 2	Normal 			Long Body Pokemon	 Keen Eye Run Away Frisk  		5′11″ (1.80m) 		71.7 lbs (32.5 kg) 		First stage
Gold It makes a nest to suit its long and skinny body. The nest is impossible for other POKéMON to enter. Silver There is no telling where the tail begins. Despite its short legs, it is quick at hunting RATTATA. Crystal It lives in narrow burrows that fit its slim body. The deeper the nests go, the more mazelike they become. Ruby Sapphire FURRET has a very slim build. When under attack, it can slickly squirm through narrow spaces and get away. In spite of its short limbs, this POKéMON is very nimble and fleet. FireRed There is no telling where its tail begins. Despite its short legs, it is quick at hunting RATTATA. LeafGreen It makes a nest to suit its long and skinny body. The nest is impossible for other POKéMON to enter. Emerald A FURRET has a very slim build. When under attack, it can squirm through narrow spaces and get away. In spite of its short limbs, it is very nimble and fleet. Diamond Pearl Platinum The mother puts its offspring to sleep by curling up around them. It corners foes with speed. HeartGold It makes a nest to suit its long and skinny body. The nest is impossible for other Pokémon to enter. SoulSilver There is no telling where the tail begins. Despite its short legs, it is quick and likes to chase RATTATA. Black White Black 2 White 2 The mother puts its offspring to sleep by curling up around them. It corners foes with speed. X The mother puts its offspring to sleep by curling up around them. It corners foes with speed. Y It makes a nest to suit its long and skinny body. The nest is impossible for other Pokémon to enter. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Furret has a very slim build. When under attack, it can slickly squirm through narrow spaces and get away. In spite of its short limbs, this Pokémon is very nimble and fleet. 
Hoothoot	163	Generation 2	Normal Flying 		Owl Pokemon		 Insomnia Keen Eye Tinted Lens  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		46.7 lbs (21.2 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It always stands on one foot. It changes feet so fast, the movement can rarely be seen. Silver It has a perfect sense of time. Whatever happens, it keeps rhythm by precisely tilting its head in time. Crystal It begins to hoot at the same time every day. Some trainers use them in place of clocks. Ruby Sapphire HOOTHOOT has an internal organ that senses and tracks the earth’s rotation. Using this special organ, this POKéMON begins hooting at precisely the same time every day. FireRed It has a perfect sense of time. Whatever happens, it keeps rhythm by precisely tilting its head in time. LeafGreen It always stands on one foot. It changes feet so fast, the movement can rarely be seen. Emerald It has an internal organ that senses the earth’s rotation. Using this special organ, a HOOTHOOT begins hooting at precisely the same time every day. Diamond It always stands on one foot. Even when attacked, it does not brace itself using both feet. Pearl It switches its standing foot so quickly, it can’t be seen. It cries at the same time every day. Platinum It marks time precisely. Some countries consider it to be a wise friend, versed in the world’s ways. HeartGold It always stands on one foot. It changes feet so fast, the movement can rarely be seen. SoulSilver It has a perfect sense of time. Whatever happens, it keeps rhythm by precisely tilting its head in time. Black White Black 2 White 2 It marks time precisely. Some countries consider it to be a wise friend, versed in the world’s ways. X It has a perfect sense of time. Whatever happens, it keeps rhythm by precisely tilting its head in time. Y It always stands on one foot. It changes feet so fast, the movement can rarely be seen. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Hoothoot has an internal organ that senses and tracks the earth’s rotation. Using this special organ, this Pokémon begins hooting at precisely the same time every day. 
Noctowl		164	Generation 2	Normal Flying 		Owl Pokemon		 Insomnia Keen Eye Tinted Lens  	5′3″ (1.60m) 		89.9 lbs (40.8 kg) 		First stage
Gold Its eyes are specially adapted. They concentrate even faint light and enable it to see in the dark. Silver When it needs to think, it rotates its head 180 degrees to sharpen its intellectual power. Crystal Its extremely soft feathers make no sound in flight. It silently sneaks up on prey without being detected. Ruby Sapphire NOCTOWL never fails at catching prey in darkness. This POKéMON owes its success to its superior vision that allows it to see in minimal light, and to its soft, supple wings that make no sound in flight. FireRed When it needs to think, it rotates its head 180 degrees to sharpen its intellectual power. LeafGreen Its eyes are specially adapted. They concentrate even faint light and enable it to see in the dark. Emerald It unfailingly catches prey in darkness. NOCTOWL owe their success to superior vision that allows them to see in minimal light, and to their supple and silent wings. Diamond Its eyes are special. They can pick out objects as long as there is the tiniest amount of light. Pearl If it flips its head upside down, it’s a sign that it is engaged in very complex thinking. Platinum Its eyes are specially developed to enable it to see clearly even in murky darkness and minimal light. HeartGold Its eyes are specially adapted. They concentrate even faint light and enable it to see in the dark. SoulSilver When it needs to think, it rotates its head 180 degrees to sharpen its intellectual power. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its eyes are specially developed to enable it to see clearly even in murky darkness and minimal light. X Its eyes are specially adapted. They concentrate even faint light and enable it to see in the dark. Y When it needs to think, it rotates its head 180 degrees to sharpen its intellectual power. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Noctowl never fails at catching prey in darkness. This Pokémon owes its success to its superior vision that allows it to see in minimal light, and to its soft, supple wings that make no sound in flight. 
Ledyba		165	Generation 2	Bug Flying 		Five Star Pokemon	 Early Bird Swarm Rattled  		3′3″ (0.99m) 		23.8 lbs (10.8 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It is very timid. It will be afraid to move if it is alone. But it will be active if it is in a group. Silver When the weather turns cold, lots of LEDYBA gather from everywhere to cluster and keep each other warm. Crystal It is timid and clusters together with others. The fluid secreted by its feet indicates its location. Ruby Sapphire LEDYBA secretes an aromatic fluid from where its legs join its body. This fluid is used for communicating with others. This POKéMON conveys its feelings to others by altering the fluid’s scent. FireRed When the weather turns cold, numerous LEDYBA gather from everywhere to cluster and keep each other warm. LeafGreen It is very timid. It will be afraid to move if it is alone. But it will be active if it is in a group. Emerald LEDYBA communicate using a fluid that they secrete from where the legs join the body. They are said to convey feelings to others by altering the fluid’s scent. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is so timid, it can’t move if it isn’t with a swarm of others. It conveys its feelings with scent. HeartGold It is very timid. It will be afraid to move if it is alone. But it will be active if it is in a group. SoulSilver When the weather turns cold, lots of LEDYBA gather from everywhere to cluster and keep each other warm. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is so timid, it can’t move if it isn’t with a swarm of others. It conveys its feelings with scent. X When the weather turns cold, lots of Ledyba gather from everywhere to cluster and keep each other warm. Y It is timid and clusters together with others. The fluid secreted by its feet indicates its location. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Ledyba secretes an aromatic fluid from where its legs join its body. This fluid is used for communicating with others. This Pokémon conveys its feelings to others by altering the fluid’s scent. Sun They are timid and grow uneasy when not in a swarm with others of their kind. The pattern on their backs differs slightly from one to another. Moon They communicate with one another using bodily fluids that give off odors. When they’re angry, their odor smells sour. 
Ledian		166	Generation 2	Bug Flying 		Five Star Pokemon	 Early Bird Swarm Iron Fist  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		78.5 lbs (35.6 kg) 		First stage
Gold When the stars flicker in the night sky, it flutters about, scattering a glowing powder. Silver The star patterns on its back grow larger or smaller depending on the number of stars in the night sky. Crystal In the daytime when it gets warm, it curls up inside a big leaf and drifts off into a deep slumber. Ruby Sapphire It is said that in lands with clean air, where the stars fill the sky, there live LEDIAN in countless numbers. There is a good reason for this - the POKéMON uses the light of the stars as its energy. FireRed The star patterns on its back grow larger or smaller depending on the number of stars in the night sky. LeafGreen When the stars flicker in the night sky, it flutters about, scattering a glowing powder. Emerald It is said that in lands with clean air, where the stars fill the sky, there live many LEDIAN. For good reason, they use the light of the stars as energy. Diamond Pearl Platinum It uses starlight as energy. When more stars appear at night, the patterns on its back grow larger. HeartGold When the stars flicker in the night sky, it flutters about, scattering a glowing powder. SoulSilver The spot patterns on its back grow larger or smaller depending on the number of stars in the night sky. Black White Black 2 White 2 It uses starlight as energy. When more stars appear at night, the patterns on its back grow larger. X When the stars flicker in the night sky, it flutters about, scattering a glowing powder. Y The spot patterns on its back grow larger or smaller depending on the number of stars in the night sky. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire It is said that in lands with clean air, where the stars fill the sky, there live Ledian in countless numbers. There is a good reason for this—the Pokémon uses the light of the stars as its energy. Sun While it’s believed that starlight provides it with energy, this Pokémon also loves to eat berries. In the daytime, it curls up in the grass to sleep. Moon In battle, it throws punches with all four arms. The power of each individual blow is piddly, so it aims to win by quantity rather than quality. 
Spinarak	167	Generation 2	Bug Poison 		String Spit Pokemon	 Insomnia Swarm Sniper  			1′8″ (0.51m) 		18.7 lbs (8.5 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It lies still in the same pose for days in its web, waiting for its unsuspecting prey to wander close. Silver It spins a web using fine--but durable--thread. It then waits patiently for prey to be trapped. Crystal If prey becomes ensnared in its nest of spun string, it waits motionlessly until it becomes dark. Ruby Sapphire The web spun by SPINARAK can be considered its second nervous system. It is said that this POKéMON can determine what kind of prey is touching its web just by the tiny vibrations it feels through the web’s strands. FireRed It spins a web using fine--but durable--thread. It then waits patiently for prey to be trapped. LeafGreen It lies still in the same pose for days in its web, waiting for its unsuspecting prey to wander close. Emerald The web it spins can be considered its second nervous system. It is said that a SPINARAK determines its prey by the tiny vibrations it feels through the web. Diamond Pearl Platinum It sets a trap by spinning a web with thin but strong silk. It waits motionlessly for prey to arrive. HeartGold It lies still in the same pose for days in its web, waiting for its unsuspecting prey to wander close. SoulSilver It spins a web using fine--but durable--thread. It then waits patiently for prey to be trapped. Black White Black 2 White 2 It sets a trap by spinning a web with thin but strong silk. It waits motionlessly for prey to arrive. X It spins a web using fine--but durable--thread. It then waits patiently for prey to be trapped. Y It lies still in the same pose for days in its web, waiting for its unsuspecting prey to wander close. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire The web spun by Spinarak can be considered its second nervous system. It is said that this Pokémon can determine what kind of prey is touching its web just by the tiny vibrations it feels through the web’s strands. Sun It waits intently until its preferred prey, Cutiefly, gets caught in its web. In fact, it’s quite a patient Pokémon. Moon Some fishermen weave its sturdy thread into nets to catch fish Pokémon. 
Ariados		168	Generation 2	Bug Poison 		Long Leg Pokemon	 Insomnia Swarm Sniper  			3′7″ (1.09m) 		73.9 lbs (33.5 kg) 		First stage
Gold It spins string not only from its rear but also from its mouth. It is hard to tell which end is which. Silver A single strand of a special string is endlessly spun out of its rear. The string leads back to its nest. Crystal Rather than making a nest in one specific spot, it wanders in search of food after darkness falls. Ruby Sapphire ARIADOS’s feet are tipped with tiny hooked claws that enable it to scuttle on ceilings and vertical walls. This POKéMON constricts the foe with thin and strong silk webbing. FireRed A single strand of a special string is endlessly spun out of its rear. The string leads back to its nest. LeafGreen It spins string not only from its rear but also from its mouth. It is hard to tell which end is which. Emerald Its feet are tipped with tiny hooked claws that enable it to scuttle on ceilings and vertical walls. It constricts its foe with thin and strong silk webbing. Diamond Pearl Platinum It attaches silk to its prey and sets it free. Later, it tracks the silk to the prey and its friends. HeartGold It spins string not only from its rear but also from its mouth. It’s hard to tell which end is which. SoulSilver A single strand of a special string is endlessly spun out of its rear. The string leads back to its nest. Black White Black 2 White 2 It attaches silk to its prey and sets it free. Later, it tracks the silk to the prey and its friends. X It spins string not only from its rear but also from its mouth. It’s hard to tell which end is which. Y It attaches silk to its prey and sets it free. Later, it tracks the silk to the prey and its friends. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Ariados’s feet are tipped with tiny hooked claws that enable it to scuttle on ceilings and vertical walls. This Pokémon constricts the foe with thin and strong silk webbing. Sun There are some areas where people use the string Ariados spins for their own weaving. The resulting cloth is popular for its strength. Moon It spins thread from both its rear and its mouth. Then it wraps its prey up in thread and sips their bodily fluids at its leisure. 
Crobat		169	Generation 2	Poison Flying 		Bat Pokemon		 Inner Focus Infiltrator  		5′11″ (1.80m) 		165.3 lbs (75.0 kg) 		Second stage
Gold It flies so silently through the dark on its four wings that it may not be noticed even when nearby. Silver The development of wings on its legs enables it to fly fast but also makes it tough to stop and rest. Crystal As a result of its pursuit of faster, yet more silent flight, a new set of wings grew on its hind legs. Ruby If this POKéMON is flying by fluttering only a pair of wings on either the forelegs or hind legs, it’s proof that CROBAT has been flying a long distance. It switches the wings it uses if it is tired. Sapphire CROBAT sneaks up on its intended prey using wings that barely make a sound. This POKéMON rests by hanging on a tree branch with its rear legs that serve as wings. FireRed The development of wings on its legs enables it to fly fast but also makes it tough to stop and rest. LeafGreen It flies so silently through the dark on its four wings that it may not be noticed even when nearby. Emerald Over the course of evolution, its hind legs turned into wings. By alternately resting its front and rear wings, it can fly all day without having to stop. Diamond Having four wings enables it to fly faster and more quietly. It turns active when the night comes. Pearl A Pokémon that gained vastly enhanced flying performance by having its legs turn into wings. Platinum The transformation of its legs into wings made it better at flying, but more clumsy at walking. HeartGold It flies so silently through the dark on its four wings that it may not be noticed even when nearby. SoulSilver The development of wings on its legs enables it to fly fast but also makes it tough to stop and rest. Black White The transformation of its legs into wings made it better at flying, but more clumsy at walking. Black 2 White 2 Having four wings allows it to fly more quickly and quietly so it can sneak up on prey without its noticing. X It flies so silently through the dark on its four wings that it may not be noticed even when nearby. Y Having four wings allows it to fly more quickly and quietly so it can sneak up on prey without its noticing. Omega Ruby If this Pokémon is flying by fluttering only a pair of wings on either the forelegs or hind legs, it’s proof that Crobat has been flying a long distance. It switches the wings it uses if it is tired. Alpha Sapphire Crobat sneaks up on its intended prey using wings that barely make a sound. This Pokémon rests by hanging on a tree branch with its rear legs that serve as wings. Sun Both its legs became wings, and as a result, it can’t move well on the ground. All it can do is crawl around. Moon Silent and swift in its four-winged flight, it bites down on its prey before they realize what’s happening. In a heartbeat, it drains their blood. 
Chinchou	170	Generation 2	Water Electric 		Angler Pokemon		 Illuminate Volt Absorb Water Absorb  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		26.5 lbs (12.0 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It shoots positive and negative electricity between the tips of its two antennae and zaps its enemies. Silver On the dark ocean floor, its only means of communication is its constantly flashing lights. Crystal Its antennae, which evolved from a fin, have both positive and negative charges flowing through them. Ruby CHINCHOU lets loose positive and negative electrical charges from its two antennas to make its prey faint. This POKéMON flashes its electric lights to exchange signals with others. Sapphire CHINCHOU’s two antennas are filled with cells that generate strong electricity. This POKéMON’s cells create so much electrical power, it even makes itself tingle slightly. FireRed On the dark ocean floor, its only means of communication is its constantly flashing lights. LeafGreen It shoots positive and negative electricity between the tips of its two antennae and zaps its enemies. Emerald When it senses danger, it discharges positive and negative electricity from its two antennae. It lives in depths beyond sunlight’s reach. Diamond Pearl Platinum It discharges positive and negative electricity from its antenna tips to shock its foes. HeartGold It shoots positive and negative electricity between the tips of its two antennae and zaps its enemies. SoulSilver On the dark ocean floor, its only means of communication is its constantly flashing lights. Black White Black 2 White 2 It discharges positive and negative electricity from its antenna tips to shock its foes. X On the dark ocean floor, its only means of communication is its constantly flashing lights. Y It shoots positive and negative electricity between the tips of its two antennae and zaps its enemies. Omega Ruby Chinchou lets loose positive and negative electrical charges from its two antennas to make its prey faint. This Pokémon flashes its electric lights to exchange signals with others. Alpha Sapphire Chinchou’s two antennas are filled with cells that generate strong electricity. This Pokémon’s cells create so much electrical power, it even makes itself tingle slightly. Sun Its two antennae were originally fins. It discharges electricity to stun its prey before attacking. Moon It lives in the depths beyond the reach of sunlight. It flashes lights on its antennae to communicate with others of its kind. 
Lanturn		171	Generation 2	Water Electric 		Light Pokemon		 Illuminate Volt Absorb Water Absorb  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		49.6 lbs (22.5 kg) 		First stage
Gold The light it emits is so bright that it can illuminate the sea's surface from a depth of over three miles. Silver It blinds prey with an intense burst of light, then swallows the immobilized prey in a single gulp. Crystal This POKéMON uses the bright part of its body, which changed from a dorsal fin, to lure prey. Ruby LANTURN is nicknamed “the deep-sea star” for its illuminated antenna. This POKéMON produces light by causing a chemical reaction between bacteria and its bodily fluids inside the antenna. Sapphire LANTURN is known to emit light. If you peer down into the dark sea from a ship at night, you can sometimes see this POKéMON’s light rising from the depths where it swims. It gives the sea an appearance of a starlit night. FireRed It blinds prey with an intense burst of light, then swallows the immobilized prey in a single gulp. LeafGreen The light it emits is so bright that it can illuminate the sea’s surface from a depth of over three miles. Emerald The light-emitting orbs on its back are very bright. They are formed from a part of its dorsal fin. This POKéMON illuminates the inky darkness of deep seas. Diamond Pearl Platinum LANTURN’s light can shine up from great depths. It is nicknamed “The Deep-Sea Star.” HeartGold The light it emits is so bright that it can illuminate the sea’s surface from a depth of over three miles. SoulSilver It blinds prey with an intense burst of light. With the prey incapacitated, the Pokémon swallows it in a single gulp. Black White Black 2 White 2 Lanturn’s light can shine up from great depths. It is nicknamed “The Deep-Sea Star.” X Lanturn’s light can shine up from great depths. It is nicknamed “The Deep-Sea Star.” Y It blinds prey with an intense burst of light. With the prey incapacitated, the Pokémon swallows it in a single gulp. Omega Ruby Lanturn is nicknamed “the deep-sea star” for its illuminated antenna. This Pokémon produces light by causing a chemical reaction between bacteria and its bodily fluids inside the antenna. Alpha Sapphire Lanturn is known to emit light. If you peer down into the dark sea from a ship at night, you can sometimes see this Pokémon’s light rising from the depths where it swims. It gives the sea an appearance of a starlit night. Sun Should you peer into the ocean at night and see a light shining like the stars, that is Lanturn. Moon This Pokémon flashes a bright light that blinds its prey. This creates an opening for it to deliver an electrical attack. 
Pichu		172	Generation 2	Electric 		Tiny Mouse Pokemon	 Static Lightning Rod  			1′0″ (0.30m) 		4.4 lbs (2.0 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It is not yet skilled at storing electricity. It may send out a jolt if amused or startled. Silver Despite its small size, it can zap even adult humans. However, if it does so, it also surprises itself. Crystal It is unskilled at storing electric power. Any kind of shock causes it to discharge energy spontaneously. Ruby PICHU charges itself with electricity more easily on days with thunderclouds or when the air is very dry. You can hear the crackling of static electricity coming off this POKéMON. Sapphire When PICHU plays with others, it may short out electricity with another PICHU, creating a shower of sparks. In that event, this POKéMON will begin crying, startled by the flash of sparks. FireRed Despite its small size, it can zap even adult humans. However, if it does so, it also surprises itself. LeafGreen It is not yet skilled at storing electricity. It may send out a jolt if amused or startled. Emerald It is still inept at retaining electricity. When it is startled, it discharges power accidentally. It gets better at holding power as it grows older. Diamond The electric pouches on its cheeks are still small. They cannot store much electricity yet. Pearl It plays with others by touching tails and setting off sparks. This appears to be a test of courage. Platinum The electric sacs in its cheeks are small. If even a little electricity leaks, it becomes shocked. HeartGold It is not yet skilled at storing electricity. It may send out a jolt if amused or startled. SoulSilver Despite its small size, it can zap even adult humans. However, if it does so, it also surprises itself. Black White Black 2 White 2 The electric sacs in its cheeks are small. If even a little electricity leaks, it becomes shocked. X It plays with others by touching tails and setting off sparks. This appears to be a test of courage. Y It is not yet skilled at storing electricity. It may send out a jolt if amused or startled. Omega Ruby Pichu charges itself with electricity more easily on days with thunderclouds or when the air is very dry. You can hear the crackling of static electricity coming off this Pokémon. Alpha Sapphire When Pichu plays with others, it may short out electricity with another Pichu, creating a shower of sparks. In that event, this Pokémon will begin crying, startled by the flash of sparks. Sun It is not yet skilled at controlling electricity. If you take your eyes off it, it may shock itself. Moon Despite this Pokémon’s cute appearance, those who want to live with one should prepare to be on the receiving end of its electric jolts. 
Cleffa		173	Generation 2	Fairy 			Star Shape Pokemon	 Cute Charm Magic Guard Friend Guard  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		6.6 lbs (3.0 kg) 		Basic form
Gold Because of its unusual, star-like silhouette, people believe that it came here on a meteor. Silver When numerous meteors illuminate the night sky, sightings of CLEFFA strangely increase. Crystal If the impact site of a meteorite is found, this POKéMON is certain to be within the immediate area. Ruby Sapphire On nights with many shooting stars, CLEFFA can be seen dancing in a ring. They dance through the night and stop only at the break of day, when these POKéMON quench their thirst with the morning dew. FireRed When numerous meteors illuminate the night sky, sightings of CLEFFA strangely increase. LeafGreen Because of its unusual, starlike silhouette, people believe that it came here on a meteor. Emerald On nights with many shooting stars, CLEFFA can be seen dancing in a ring. They dance until daybreak, when they quench their thirst with the morning dew. Diamond Its silhouette is like a star. It is believed to arrive riding on shooting stars. Pearl Many appear when the night skies are filled with shooting stars. They disappear with sunrise. Platinum It is often seen when shooting stars fill the night skies. It’s said to arrive riding on a shooting star. HeartGold Because of its unusual, starlike silhouette, people believe that it came here on a meteor. SoulSilver When numerous meteors illuminate the night sky, sightings of CLEFFA strangely increase. Black White It is often seen when shooting stars fill the night skies. It’s said to arrive riding on a shooting star. Black 2 White 2 According to local rumors, Cleffa are often seen in places where shooting stars have fallen. X Because of its unusual, starlike silhouette, people believe that it came here on a meteor. Y Many appear when the night skies are filled with shooting stars. They disappear with sunrise. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire On nights with many shooting stars, Cleffa can be seen dancing in a ring. They dance through the night and stop only at the break of day, when these Pokémon quench their thirst with the morning dew. Sun On late nights illuminated by shooting stars, it gazes intently skyward, as if thinking of its home. Moon Because of its silhouette, it’s believed to be a star reborn. For some reason, it loves Minior. 
Igglybuff	174	Generation 2	Normal Fairy 		Balloon Pokemon		 Competitive Cute Charm Friend Guard  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		2.2 lbs (1.0 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It has a very soft body. If it starts to roll, it will bounce all over and be impossible to stop. Silver Its extremely flexible and elastic body makes it bounce continuously--anytime, anywhere. Crystal Instead of walking with its short legs, it moves around by bouncing on its soft, tender body. Ruby IGGLYBUFF’s vocal chords are not sufficiently developed. It would hurt its throat if it were to sing too much. This POKéMON gargles with freshwater from a clean stream. Sapphire IGGLYBUFF has a soft and plushy body that feels very much like a marshmallow. From this body wafts a gently sweet fragrance that soothes and calms the emotions of its foes. FireRed Its extremely flexible and elastic body makes it bounce continuously--anytime, anywhere. LeafGreen It has a very soft body. If it starts to roll, it will bounce all over and be impossible to stop. Emerald Its soft and pliable body is very bouncy. When it sings continuously with all its might, its body steadily turns a deepening pink color. Diamond Pearl Platinum It has a soft and bouncy body. Once it starts bouncing, it becomes impossible to stop. HeartGold It has a very soft body. If it starts to roll, it will bounce all over and be impossible to stop. SoulSilver Its extremely flexible and elastic body makes it bounce continuously--anytime, anywhere. Black White It has a soft and bouncy body. Once it starts bouncing, it becomes impossible to stop. Black 2 White 2 Its body has a faintly sweet scent and is bouncy and soft. If it bounces even once, it cannot stop. X Instead of walking with its short legs, it moves around by bouncing on its soft, tender body. Y It has a very soft body. If it starts to roll, it will bounce all over and be impossible to stop. Omega Ruby Igglybuff’s vocal cords are not sufficiently developed. It would hurt its throat if it were to sing too much. This Pokémon gargles with freshwater from a clean stream. Alpha Sapphire Igglybuff has a soft and plushy body that feels very much like a marshmallow. From this body wafts a gently sweet fragrance that soothes and calms the emotions of its foes. Sun It likes to sing but is not yet good at it. With praise and encouragement, it will get better little by little. Moon It moves by bouncing along. As it moves a lot, it sweats, and its body gives off a sweet aroma. 
Togepi		175	Generation 2	Fairy 			Spike Ball Pokemon	 Hustle Serene Grace Super Luck  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		3.3 lbs (1.5 kg) 		Basic form
Gold The shell seems to be filled with joy. It is said that it will share good luck when treated kindly. Silver A proverb claims that happiness will come to anyone who can make a sleeping TOGEPI stand up. Crystal It is considered to be a symbol of good luck. Its shell is said to be filled with happiness. Ruby Sapphire As its energy, TOGEPI uses the positive emotions of compassion and pleasure exuded by people and POKéMON. This POKéMON stores up feelings of happiness inside its shell, then shares them with others. FireRed A proverb claims that happiness will come to anyone who can make a sleeping TOGEPI stand up. LeafGreen The shell seems to be filled with joy. It is said that it will share good luck when treated kindly. Emerald As its energy, it uses the feelings of compassion and pleasure exuded by people and POKéMON. It stores up happy feelings in its shell, then shares them out. Diamond Pearl Its shell is said to be stuffed with happiness that it shares with kindhearted people. Platinum It transforms the kindness and joy of others into happiness, which it stores in its shell. HeartGold The shell seems to be filled with joy. It is said that it will share good luck when treated kindly. SoulSilver A proverb claims that happiness will come to anyone who can make a sleeping TOGEPI stand up. Black White Black 2 White 2 It transforms the kindness and joy of others into happiness, which it stores in its shell. X The shell seems to be filled with joy. It is said that it will share good luck when treated kindly. Y A proverb claims that happiness will come to anyone who can make a sleeping Togepi stand up. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire As its energy, Togepi uses the positive emotions of compassion and pleasure exuded by people and Pokémon. This Pokémon stores up feelings of happiness inside its shell, then shares them with others. 
Togetic		176	Generation 2	Fairy Flying 		Happiness Pokemon	 Hustle Serene Grace Super Luck  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		7.1 lbs (3.2 kg) 		First stage
Gold They say that it will appear before kindhearted, caring people and shower them with happiness. Silver It grows dispirited if it is not with kind people. It can float in midair without moving its wings. Crystal Although it does not flap its wings very much, it can stay up in the air as it tags along after its trainer. Ruby Sapphire TOGETIC is said to be a POKéMON that brings good fortune. When the POKéMON spots someone who is pure of heart, it is said to appear and share its happiness with that person. FireRed It grows dispirited if it is not with kind people. It can float in midair without moving its wings. LeafGreen They say that it will appear before kindhearted, caring people and shower them with happiness. Emerald It is said to be a POKéMON that brings good fortune. When it spots someone who is pure of heart, a TOGETIC appears and shares its happiness with that person. Diamond Pearl It is said to appear in front of kindly people to scatter a glowing down called “joy dust.” Platinum To share its happiness, it flies around the world seeking kindhearted people. HeartGold They say that it will appear before kindhearted, caring people and shower them with happiness. SoulSilver It grows dispirited if it is not with kind people. It can float in midair without moving its wings. Black White Black 2 White 2 To share its happiness, it flies around the world seeking kind-hearted people. X It grows dispirited if it is not with kind people. It can float in midair without moving its wings. Y They say that it will appear before kindhearted, caring people and shower them with happiness. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Togetic is said to be a Pokémon that brings good fortune. When the Pokémon spots someone who is pure of heart, it is said to appear and share its happiness with that person. 
Natu		177	Generation 2	Psychic Flying 		Tiny Bird Pokemon	 Early Bird Synchronize Magic Bounce  	0′8″ (0.20m) 		4.4 lbs (2.0 kg) 		Basic form
Gold Because its wings aren't yet fully grown, it has to hop to get around. It is always staring at something. Silver It usually forages for food on the ground but may, on rare occasions, hop onto branches to peck at shoots. Crystal It is extremely good at climbing tree trunks and likes to eat the new sprouts on the trees. Ruby NATU cannot fly because its wings are not yet fully grown. If your eyes meet with this POKéMON’s eyes, it will stare back intently at you. But if you move even slightly, it will hop away to safety. Sapphire NATU has a highly developed jumping ability. The POKéMON flaps and leaps onto tree branches that are taller than grown-up people to pick at the tree’s new shoots. FireRed It usually forages for food on the ground but may, on rare occasions, hop onto branches to peck at shoots. LeafGreen Because its wings aren’t yet fully grown, it has to hop to get around. It is always staring at something. Emerald It runs up short trees that grow on the savanna to peck at new shoots. A NATU’s eyes look as if they are always observing something. Diamond Pearl Platinum It picks food from cactus plants, deftly avoiding buds and spines. It seems to skip about to move. HeartGold Because its wings aren’t yet fully grown, it has to hop to get around. It is always staring at something. SoulSilver It usually forages for food on the ground but may, on rare occasions, hop onto branches to peck at shoots. Black White Black 2 White 2 It picks food from cactus plants, deftly avoiding buds and spines. It seems to skip about to move. X Because its wings aren’t yet fully grown, it has to hop to get around. It is always staring at something. Y It usually forages for food on the ground but may, on rare occasions, hop onto branches to peck at shoots. Omega Ruby Natu cannot fly because its wings are not yet fully grown. If your eyes meet with this Pokémon’s eyes, it will stare back intently at you. But if you move even slightly, it will hop away to safety. Alpha Sapphire Natu has a highly developed jumping ability. The Pokémon flaps and leaps onto tree branches that are taller than grown-up people to pick at the tree’s new shoots. 
Xatu		178	Generation 2	Psychic Flying 		Mystic Pokemon		 Early Bird Synchronize Magic Bounce  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		33.1 lbs (15.0 kg) 		First stage
Gold They say that it stays still and quiet because it is seeing both the past and future at the same time. Silver In South America, it is said that its right eye sees the future and its left eye views the past. Crystal Once it begins to meditate at sunrise, the entire day will pass before it will move again. Ruby XATU stands rooted and still in one spot all day long. People believe that this POKéMON does so out of fear of the terrible things it has foreseen in the future. Sapphire XATU is known to stand motionless while staring at the sun all day long. Some people revere it as a mystical POKéMON out of their belief that XATU is in possession of the power to see into the future. FireRed In South America, it is said that its right eye sees the future and its left eye views the past. LeafGreen They say that it stays still and quiet because it is seeing both the past and future at the same time. Emerald It has the enigmatic power of foreseeing the future. Some people in different lands have long believed that XATU are emissaries from another world. Diamond Pearl Platinum This odd Pokémon can see both the past and the future. It eyes the sun’s movement all day. HeartGold They say that it stays still and quiet because it is seeing both the past and future at the same time. SoulSilver In South America, it is said that its right eye sees the future and its left eye views the past. Black White Black 2 White 2 This odd Pokémon can see both the past and the future. It eyes the sun’s movement all day. X Once it begins to meditate at sunrise, the entire day will pass before it will move again. Y They say that it stays still and quiet because it is seeing both the past and future at the same time. Omega Ruby Xatu stands rooted and still in one spot all day long. People believe that this Pokémon does so out of fear of the terrible things it has foreseen in the future. Alpha Sapphire Xatu is known to stand motionless while staring at the sun all day long. Some people revere it as a mystical Pokémon out of their belief that Xatu is in possession of the power to see into the future. 
Mareep		179	Generation 2	Electric 		Wool Pokemon		 Static Plus  				2′0″ (0.61m) 		17.2 lbs (7.8 kg) 		Basic form
Gold If static electricity builds in its body, its fleece doubles in volume. Touching it will shock you. Silver Its fleece grows continually. In the summer, the fleece is fully shed, but it grows back in a week. Crystal It stores lots of air in its soft fur, allowing it to stay cool in summer and warm in winter. Ruby Sapphire MAREEP’s fluffy coat of wool rubs together and builds a static charge. The more static electricity is charged, the more brightly the lightbulb at the tip of its tail grows. FireRed Its fleece grows continually. In the summer, the fleece is fully shed, but it grows back in a week. LeafGreen If static electricity builds in its body, its fleece doubles in volume. Touching it will shock you. Emerald Its fluffy wool rubs together and builds a static charge. The more energy is charged, the more brightly the lightbulb at the tip of its tail glows. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its fluffy coat swells to double when static electricity builds up. Touching it can be shocking. HeartGold If static electricity builds in its body, its fleece doubles in volume. Touching it will shock you. SoulSilver Its fleece grows continually. In the summer, the fleece is fully shed, but it grows back in a week. Black White Its fluffy coat swells to double when static electricity builds up. Touching it can be shocking. Black 2 White 2 When cold weather increases static electricity, its wool doubles in size and the tip of its tail glows slightly. X Its fluffy coat swells to double when static electricity builds up. Touching it can be shocking. Y It stores lots of air in its soft fur, allowing it to stay cool in summer and warm in winter. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Mareep’s fluffy coat of wool rubs together and builds a static charge. The more static electricity is charged, the more brightly the lightbulb at the tip of its tail glows. 
Flaaffy		180	Generation 2	Electric 		Wool Pokemon		 Static Plus  				2′7″ (0.79m) 		29.3 lbs (13.3 kg) 		First stage
Gold As a result of storing too much electricity, it developed patches where even downy wool won't grow. Silver Its fluffy fleece easily stores electricity. Its rubbery hide keeps it from being electrocuted. Crystal Because of its rubbery, electricity-resistant skin, it can store lots of electricity in its fur. Ruby Sapphire FLAAFFY’s wool quality changes so that it can generate a high amount of static electricity with a small amount of wool. The bare and slick parts of its hide are shielded against electricity. FireRed Its fluffy fleece easily stores electricity. Its rubbery hide keeps it from being electrocuted. LeafGreen As a result of storing too much electricity, it developed patches where even downy wool won’t grow. Emerald Its fleece quality changes to generate strong static electricity with a small amount of wool. The bare, slick parts of its hide are shielded against electricity. Diamond Pearl Platinum If its coat becomes fully charged with electricity, its tail lights up. It fires hair that zaps on impact. HeartGold As a result of storing too much electricity, it developed patches where even downy wool won’t grow. SoulSilver Its fluffy fleece easily stores electricity. Its rubbery hide keeps it from being electrocuted. Black White If its coat becomes fully charged with electricity, its tail lights up. It fires hair that zaps on impact. Black 2 White 2 Not even downy wool will grow on its rubbery, nonconductive patches of skin that prevent electrical shock. X Its fluffy fleece easily stores electricity. Its rubbery hide keeps it from being electrocuted. Y If its coat becomes fully charged with electricity, its tail lights up. It fires hair that zaps on impact. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Flaaffy’s wool quality changes so that it can generate a high amount of static electricity with a small amount of wool. The bare and slick parts of its hide are shielded against electricity. 
Ampharos	181	Generation 2	Electric 		Light Pokemon		 Static Plus  				4′7″ (1.40m) 		135.6 lbs (61.5 kg) 		Second stage
Gold The tail's tip shines brightly and can be seen from far away. It acts as a beacon for lost people. Silver The bright light on its tail can be seen far away. It has been treasured since ancient times as a beacon. Crystal When it gets dark, the light from its bright, shiny tail can be seen from far away on the ocean's surface. Ruby Sapphire AMPHAROS gives off so much light that it can be seen even from space. People in the old days used the light of this POKéMON to send signals back and forth with others far away. FireRed The bright light on its tail can be seen far away. It has been treasured since ancient times as a beacon. LeafGreen The tail’s tip shines brightly and can be seen from far away. It acts as a beacon for lost people. Emerald It gives off so much light that it can be seen even from space. People in the old days used its light to send signals back and forth with others far away. Diamond Pearl Platinum The tip of its tail shines brightly. In the olden days, people sent signals using the tail’s light. HeartGold The tail’s tip shines brightly and can be seen from far away. It acts as a beacon for lost people. SoulSilver The bright light on its tail can be seen far away. It has been treasured since ancient times as a beacon. Black White The tip of its tail shines brightly. In the olden days, people sent signals using the tail’s light. Black 2 White 2 The tip of its tail shines so brightly it can be used to send sea-navigation beacons to distant foreign shores. X Y The tail’s tip shines brightly and can be seen from far away. It acts as a beacon for lost people. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Ampharos gives off so much light that it can be seen even from space. People in the old days used the light of this Pokémon to send signals back and forth with others far away. 
Bellossom	182	Generation 2	Grass 			Flower Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Healer  			1′4″ (0.41m) 		12.8 lbs (5.8 kg) 		First stage
Gold BELLOSSOM gather at times and appear to dance. They say that the dance is a ritual to summon the sun. Silver Plentiful in the tropics. When it dances, its petals rub together and make a pleasant ringing sound. Crystal When these dance together, their petals rub against each other, making pretty, relaxing sounds. Ruby When BELLOSSOM gets exposed to plenty of sunlight, the leaves ringing its body begin to spin around. This POKéMON’s dancing is renowned in the southern lands. Sapphire A BELLOSSOM grows flowers more beautifully if it has evolved from a smelly GLOOM - the stinkier the better. At night, this POKéMON closes its petals and goes to sleep. FireRed Plentiful in the tropics. When it dances, its petals rub together and make a pleasant ringing sound. LeafGreen BELLOSSOM gather at times and appear to dance. They say that the dance is a ritual to summon the sun. Emerald Its flower petals deepen in color through exposure to sunlight. When cloudy weather persists, it does a dance that is thought to be a ritual for summoning the sun. Diamond Pearl Platinum When the heavy rainfall season ends, it is drawn out by warm sunlight to dance in the open. HeartGold BELLOSSOM gather at times and seem to dance. They say that the dance is a ritual to summon the sun. SoulSilver Plentiful in the tropics. When it dances, its petals rub together and make a pleasant ringing sound. Black White Black 2 White 2 When the heavy rainfall season ends, it is drawn out by warm sunlight to dance in the open. X Bellossom gather at times and seem to dance. They say that the dance is a ritual to summon the sun. Y When the heavy rainfall season ends, it is drawn out by warm sunlight to dance in the open. Omega Ruby When Bellossom gets exposed to plenty of sunlight, the leaves ringing its body begin to spin around. This Pokémon’s dancing is renowned in the southern lands. Alpha Sapphire A Bellossom grows flowers more beautifully if it has evolved from a smelly Gloom—the more stinky the better. At night, this Pokémon closes its petals and goes to sleep. 
Marill		183	Generation 2	Water Fairy 		Aqua Mouse Pokemon	 Huge Power Thick Fat Sap Sipper  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		18.7 lbs (8.5 kg) 		First stage
Gold The tip of its tail, which contains oil that is lighter than water, lets it swim without drowning. Silver The end of its tail serves as a buoy that keeps it from drowning, even in a vicious current. Crystal The fur on its body naturally repels water. It can stay dry, even when it plays in the water. Ruby MARILL’s oil-filled tail acts much like a life preserver. If you see just its tail bobbing on the water’s surface, it’s a sure indication that this POKéMON is diving beneath the water to feed on aquatic plants. Sapphire When fishing for food at the edge of a fast-running stream, MARILL wraps its tail around the trunk of a tree. This POKéMON’s tail is flexible and configured to stretch. FireRed The end of its tail serves as a buoy that keeps it from drowning, even in a vicious current. LeafGreen The tip of its tail, which contains oil that is lighter than water, lets it swim without drowning. Emerald Its body is covered with water-repellent fur. Because of the fur, it can swim through water at high speed without being slowed by the water’s resistance. Diamond Using its tail as a float, it dives underwater. It likes eating plants that grow on river bottoms. Pearl The tip of its tail is filled with oil that is lighter than water, so it acts as a float. Platinum The oil-filled end of its tail floats on water. It keeps MARILL from drowning even in a strong current. HeartGold The tip of its tail, which contains oil that is lighter than water, lets it swim without drowning. SoulSilver The end of its tail serves as a buoy that keeps it from drowning, even in a vicious current. Black White The oil-filled end of its tail floats on water. It keeps Marill from drowning even in a strong current. Black 2 White 2 The oil-filled tail functions as a buoy, so it’s fine even in rivers with strong currents. X The fur on its body naturally repels water. It can stay dry, even when it plays in the water. Y The tip of its tail is filled with oil that is lighter than water, so it acts as a float. Omega Ruby Marill’s oil-filled tail acts much like a life preserver. If you see just its tail bobbing on the water’s surface, it’s a sure indication that this Pokémon is diving beneath the water to feed on aquatic plants. Alpha Sapphire When fishing for food at the edge of a fast-running stream, Marill wraps its tail around the trunk of a tree. This Pokémon’s tail is flexible and configured to stretch. 
Azumarill	184	Generation 2	Water Fairy 		Aqua Rabbit Pokemon	 Huge Power Thick Fat Sap Sipper  	2′7″ (0.79m) 		62.8 lbs (28.5 kg) 		Second stage
Gold By keeping still and listening intently, it can tell what is in even wild, fast-moving rivers. Silver When it plays in water, it rolls up its elongated ears to prevent their insides from getting wet. Crystal The bubble-like pattern on its stomach helps it camouflage itself when it's in the water. Ruby AZUMARILL’s long ears are indispensable sensors. By focusing its hearing, this POKéMON can identify what kinds of prey are around, even in rough and fast-running rivers. Sapphire AZUMARILL can make balloons out of air. It makes these air balloons if it spots a drowning POKéMON. The air balloons enable the POKéMON in trouble to breathe. FireRed When it plays in water, it rolls up its elongated ears to prevent their insides from getting wet. LeafGreen By keeping still and listening intently, it can even tell what is in wild, fast-moving rivers. Emerald It lives in water virtually all day long. Its body color and pattern act as camouflage that makes it tough for enemies to spot in water. Diamond It lives in rivers and lakes. In water, its coloring and patterns trick the vision of foes. Pearl Its long ears are superb sensors. It can distinguish the movements of living things on riverbeds. Platinum It can spend all day in water, since it can inhale and store a large volume of air. HeartGold By keeping still and listening intently, it can tell what is in even wild, fast-moving rivers. SoulSilver When it plays in water, it rolls up its elongated ears to prevent their insides from getting wet. Black White It can spend all day in water, since it can inhale and store a large volume of air. Black 2 White 2 Its long ears are superb sensors. It can distinguish the movements of things in water and tell what they are. X Its long ears are superb sensors. It can distinguish the movements of living things on riverbeds. Y The bubble-like pattern on its stomach helps it camouflage itself when it’s in the water. Omega Ruby Azumarill’s long ears are indispensable sensors. By focusing its hearing, this Pokémon can identify what kinds of prey are around, even in rough and fast-running rivers. Alpha Sapphire Azumarill can make balloons out of air. It makes these air balloons if it spots a drowning Pokémon. The air balloons enable the Pokémon in trouble to breathe. 
Sudowoodo	185	Generation 2	Rock 			Imitation Pokemon	 Rock Head Sturdy Rattled  		3′11″ (1.19m) 		83.8 lbs (38.0 kg) 		First stage
Gold Although it always pretends to be a tree, its composition appears to be closer to a rock than a plant. Silver It disguises itself as a tree to avoid attack. It hates water, so it will disappear if it starts raining. Crystal If a tree branch shakes when there is no wind, it's a SUDOWOODO, not a tree. It hides from the rain. Ruby Sapphire SUDOWOODO camouflages itself as a tree to avoid being attacked by enemies. However, because the forelegs remain green throughout the year, the POKéMON is easily identified as a fake during the winter. FireRed It disguises itself as a tree to avoid attack. It hates water, so it will disappear if it starts raining. LeafGreen Although it always pretends to be a tree, its composition appears to be closer to a rock than a plant. Emerald It mimics a tree to avoid being attacked by enemies. But since its forelegs remain green throughout the year, it is easily identified as a fake in the winter. Diamond Despite appearing to be a tree, its body is closer to rocks and stones. It is very weak to water. Pearl It stands along paths pretending to be a tree. If it starts raining, it seems to disappear. Platinum To avoid being attacked, it does nothing but mimic a tree. It hates water and flees from rain. HeartGold Although it always pretends to be a tree, its composition appears more similar to rock than to vegetation. SoulSilver It disguises itself as a tree to avoid attack. It hates water, so it will disappear if it starts raining. Black White Black 2 White 2 To avoid being attacked, it does nothing but mimic a tree. It hates water and flees from rain. X Although it always pretends to be a tree, its composition appears more similar to rock than to vegetation. Y It disguises itself as a tree to avoid attack. It hates water, so it will disappear if it starts raining. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Sudowoodo camouflages itself as a tree to avoid being attacked by enemies. However, because its hands remain green throughout the year, the Pokémon is easily identified as a fake during the winter. Sun To avoid attack, it mimics a tree. It will run off if splashed with water, which it hates. Moon Apparently, the larger the green parts of this Pokémon, the more collectors value it. It’s a particular favorite among elderly people. 
Politoed	186	Generation 2	Water 			Frog Pokemon		 Damp Water Absorb Drizzle  		3′7″ (1.09m) 		74.7 lbs (33.9 kg) 		First stage
Gold If POLIWAG and POLIWHIRL hear its echoing cry, they respond by gathering from far and wide. Silver Whenever three or more of these get together, they sing in a loud voice that sounds like bellowing. Crystal When it expands its throat to croak out a tune, nearby POLIWAG and POLIWHIRL gather immediately. Ruby Sapphire The curled hair on POLITOED’s head is proof of its status as a king. It is said that the longer and more curled the hair, the more respect this POKéMON earns from its peers. FireRed Whenever three or more of these get together, they sing in a loud voice that sounds like bellowing. LeafGreen If POLIWAG and POLIWHIRL hear its echoing cry, they respond by gathering from far and wide. Emerald The curled hair on its head proves its status as a king. It is said that the longer and curlier the hair, the more respect it earns from its peers. Diamond Pearl Platinum It gathers groups of others as their leader. Its cries make POLIWAG obey. HeartGold If POLIWAG and POLIWHIRL hear its echoing cry, they respond by gathering from far and wide. SoulSilver Whenever three or more of these get together, they sing in a loud voice that sounds like bellowing. Black White Black 2 White 2 It gathers groups of others as their leader. Its cries make Poliwag obey. X Whenever three or more of these get together, they sing in a loud voice that sounds like bellowing. Y If Poliwag and Poliwhirl hear its echoing cry, they respond by gathering from far and wide. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire The curled hair on Politoed’s head is proof of its status as a king. It is said that the longer and more curled the hair, the more respect this Pokémon earns from its peers. Sun They gather on moonlit nights to form a large chorus. Their cries sound angry and not at all pleasant, but they are certainly distinctive. Moon It’s the leader of Poliwag and Poliwhirl. When Politoed roars, they all cower in fear. 
Hoppip		187	Generation 2	Grass Flying 		Cottonweed Pokemon	 Chlorophyll Leaf Guard Infiltrator  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		1.1 lbs (0.5 kg) 		Basic form
Gold To keep from being blown away by the wind, they gather in clusters. They do enjoy gentle breezes, though. Silver Its body is so light, it must grip the ground firmly with its feet to keep from being blown away. Crystal It can be carried away on even the gentlest breeze. It may even float all the way to the next town. Ruby Sapphire This POKéMON drifts and floats with the wind. If it senses the approach of strong winds, HOPPIP links its leaves with other HOPPIP to prepare against being blown away. FireRed Its body is so light, it must grip the ground firmly with its feet to keep from being blown away. LeafGreen To keep from being blown away by the wind, they gather in clusters. They do enjoy gentle breezes, though. Emerald This POKéMON drifts and floats with the wind. If it senses the approach of strong winds, a HOPPIP links leaves with others to prepare against being blown away. Diamond Pearl Platinum It drifts on winds. It is said that when HOPPIP gather in fields and mountains, spring is on the way. HeartGold To keep from being blown away by the wind, they gather in clusters. But they do enjoy gentle breezes. SoulSilver Its body is so light, it must grip the ground firmly with its feet to keep from being blown away. Black White Black 2 White 2 It drifts on winds. It is said that when Hoppip gather in fields and mountains, spring is on the way. X Its body is so light, it must grip the ground firmly with its feet to keep from being blown away. Y It drifts on winds. It is said that when Hoppip gather in fields and mountains, spring is on the way. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire This Pokémon drifts and floats with the wind. If it senses the approach of strong winds, Hoppip links its leaves with other Hoppip to prepare against being blown away. 
Skiploom	188	Generation 2	Grass Flying 		Cottonweed Pokemon	 Chlorophyll Leaf Guard Infiltrator  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		2.2 lbs (1.0 kg) 		First stage
Gold The bloom on top of its head opens and closes as the temperature fluctuates up and down. Silver It spreads its petals to absorb sunlight. It also floats in the air to get closer to the sun. Crystal As soon as it rains, it closes its flower and hides in the shade of a tree to avoid getting wet. Ruby Sapphire SKIPLOOM’s flower blossoms when the temperature rises above 64 degrees F. How much the flower opens depends on the temperature. For that reason, this POKéMON is sometimes used as a thermometer. FireRed It spreads its petals to absorb sunlight. It also floats in the air to get closer to the sun. LeafGreen The bloom on top of its head opens and closes as the temperature fluctuates up and down. Emerald It blossoms when the temperature rises above 64 degrees F. Because its flower’s blooming changes with the temperature, it is sometimes used as a thermometer. Diamond Pearl Platinum It blooms when the weather warms. It floats in the sky to soak up as much sunlight as possible. HeartGold The bloom on top of its head opens and closes as the temperature fluctuates up and down. SoulSilver It spreads its petals to absorb sunlight. It also floats in the air to get closer to the sun. Black White Black 2 White 2 It blooms when the weather warms. It floats in the sky to soak up as much sunlight as possible. X The bloom on top of its head opens and closes as the temperature fluctuates up and down. Y It spreads its petals to absorb sunlight. It also floats in the air to get closer to the sun. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Skiploom’s flower blossoms when the temperature rises above 64 degrees Fahrenheit. How much the flower opens depends on the temperature. For that reason, this Pokémon is sometimes used as a thermometer. 
Jumpluff	189	Generation 2	Grass Flying 		Cottonweed Pokemon	 Chlorophyll Leaf Guard Infiltrator  	2′7″ (0.79m) 		6.6 lbs (3.0 kg) 		Second stage
Gold Once it catches the wind, it deftly controls its cotton-puff spores to float, even around the world. Silver Drifts on seasonal winds and spreads its cotton-like spores all over the world to make more offspring. Crystal Even in the fiercest wind, it can control its fluff to make its way to any place in the world it wants. Ruby Sapphire JUMPLUFF rides warm southern winds to cross the sea and fly to foreign lands. The POKéMON descends to the ground when it encounters cold air while it is floating. FireRed It drifts on seasonal winds and spreads its cotton-like spores all over the world to make more offspring. LeafGreen Once it catches the wind, it deftly controls its cotton-puff spores to float, even around the world. Emerald JUMPLUFF ride warm southern winds to cross the sea and fly to foreign lands. This POKéMON lands when it encounters cold air while it is floating. Diamond Pearl Platinum Blown by seasonal winds, it circles the globe, scattering cotton spores as it goes. HeartGold Once it catches the wind, it deftly controls its cotton-puff spores--it can even float around the world. SoulSilver Drifts on seasonal winds and spreads its cotton-like spores all over the world to make more offspring. Black White Black 2 White 2 Blown by seasonal winds, it circles the globe, scattering cotton spores as it goes. X Blown by seasonal winds, it circles the globe, scattering cotton spores as it goes. Y Even in the fiercest wind, it can control its fluff to make its way to any place in the world it wants. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Jumpluff rides warm southern winds to cross the sea and fly to foreign lands. The Pokémon descends to the ground when it encounters cold air while it is floating. 
Aipom		190	Generation 2	Normal 			Long Tail Pokemon	 Pickup Run Away Skill Link  	2′7″ (0.79m) 		25.4 lbs (11.5 kg) 		Basic form
Gold Its tail is so powerful that it can use it to grab a tree branch and hold itself up in the air. Silver It lives atop tall trees. When leaping from branch to branch, it deftly uses its tail for balance. Crystal It uses its tail to hang on to tree branches. It uses its momentum to swing from one branch to another. Ruby Sapphire AIPOM’s tail ends in a hand-like appendage that can be cleverly manipulated. However, because the POKéMON uses its tail so much, its real hands have become rather clumsy. FireRed It lives atop tall trees. When leaping from branch to branch, it deftly uses its tail for balance. LeafGreen Its tail is so powerful that it can use it to grab a tree branch and hold itself up in the air. Emerald Its tail ends with a dexterous, handlike appendage. However, because it uses the tail so much, AIPOM’s real hands have become rather clumsy. Diamond It uses its tail to pluck fruits that are out of reach. Its tail is more adept than its real hands. Pearl It lives atop giant trees. It wraps its tail around a branch so it won’t fall off while asleep. Platinum It lives high among the treetops. It can use its tail as freely and cleverly as its hands. HeartGold Its tail is so powerful that it can use it to grab a tree branch and hold itself up in the air. SoulSilver It lives atop tall trees. When leaping from branch to branch, it deftly uses its tail for balance. Black White Black 2 White 2 It lives high among the treetops. It can use its tail as freely and cleverly as its hands. X It lives atop tall trees. When leaping from branch to branch, it deftly uses its tail for balance. Y Its tail is so powerful that it can use it to grab a tree branch and hold itself up in the air. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Aipom’s tail ends in a hand-like appendage that can be cleverly manipulated. However, because the Pokémon uses its tail so much, its real hands have become rather clumsy. 
Sunkern		191	Generation 2	Grass 			Seed Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Solar Power Early Bird  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		4 lbs (1.8 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It may drop out of the sky suddenly. If attacked by a SPEAROW, it will violently shake its leaves. Silver It lives by drinking only dewdrops from under the leaves of plants. It is said that it eats nothing else. Crystal It is very weak. Its only means of defense is to shake its leaves desperately at its attacker. Ruby Sapphire SUNKERN tries to move as little as it possibly can. It does so because it tries to conserve all the nutrients it has stored in its body for its evolution. It will not eat a thing, subsisting only on morning dew. FireRed It lives by drinking only dewdrops from under the leaves of plants. It is said that it eats nothing else. LeafGreen It may drop out of the sky suddenly. If attacked by a SPEAROW, it will violently shake its leaves. Emerald SUNKERN try to minimize movement to conserve the nutrients they have stored in their bodies for evolution. They will not eat, subsisting only on morning dew. Diamond Pearl Platinum It suddenly falls out of the sky in the morning. A year after a cold summer, their population explodes. HeartGold It may plummet from the sky. If attacked by a SPEAROW, it will violently shake its leaves. SoulSilver It lives by drinking only dewdrops from under the leaves of plants. It is said that it eats nothing else. Black White It suddenly falls out of the sky in the morning. A year after a cold summer, their population explodes. Black 2 White 2 It suddenly falls out of the sky in the morning. Knowing it’s weak, it simply feeds until it evolves. X It may plummet from the sky. If attacked by a Spearow, it will violently shake its leaves. Y It lives by drinking only dewdrops from under the leaves of plants. It is said that it eats nothing else. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Sunkern tries to move as little as it possibly can. It does so because it tries to conserve all the nutrients it has stored in its body for its evolution. It will not eat a thing, subsisting only on morning dew. 
Sunflora	192	Generation 2	Grass 			Sun Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Solar Power Early Bird  	2′7″ (0.79m) 		18.7 lbs (8.5 kg) 		First stage
Gold It converts sunlight into energy. In the darkness after sunset, it closes its petals and becomes still. Silver In the daytime, it rushes about in a hectic manner, but it comes to a complete stop when the sun sets. Crystal As the hot season approaches, the petals on this POKéMON's face become more vivid and lively. Ruby Sapphire SUNFLORA converts solar energy into nutrition. It moves around actively in the daytime when it is warm. It stops moving as soon as the sun goes down for the night. FireRed In the daytime, it rushes about in a hectic manner, but it comes to a complete stop when the sun sets. LeafGreen It converts sunlight into energy. In the darkness after sunset, it closes its petals and becomes still. Emerald SUNFLORA convert solar energy into nutrition. They are highly active in the warm daytime but suddenly stop moving as soon as the sun sets. Diamond Pearl Platinum It gets energy from warm sunlight and is known for its habit of moving in pursuit of it. HeartGold It converts sunlight into energy. In the darkness after sunset, it closes its petals and becomes still. SoulSilver In the daytime, it rushes about in a hectic manner, but it comes to a complete stop when the sun sets. Black White It gets energy from warm sunlight and is known for its habit of moving in pursuit of it. Black 2 White 2 Since it converts sunlight into energy, it is always looking in the direction of the sun. X As the hot season approaches, the petals on this Pokémon’s face become more vivid and lively. Y It gets energy from warm sunlight and is known for its habit of moving in pursuit of it. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Sunflora converts solar energy into nutrition. It moves around actively in the daytime when it is warm. It stops moving as soon as the sun goes down for the night. 
Yanma		193	Generation 2	Bug Flying 		Clear Wing Pokemon	 Compound Eyes Speed Boost Frisk  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		83.8 lbs (38.0 kg) 		Basic form
Gold If it flaps its wings really fast, it can generate shock waves that will shatter windows in the area. Silver Its large eyes can scan 360 degrees. It looks in all directions to seek out insects as its prey. Crystal It can see in all directions without moving its big eyes, helping it spot attackers and food right away. Ruby Sapphire YANMA is capable of seeing 360 degrees without having to move its eyes. It is a great flier that is adept at making sudden stops and turning midair. This POKéMON uses its flying ability to quickly chase down targeted prey. FireRed Its large eyes can scan 360 degrees. It looks in all directions to seek out insects as its prey. LeafGreen If it flaps its wings really fast, it can generate shock waves that will shatter windows in the area. Emerald It can see 360 degrees without moving its eyes. It is a great flier capable of making sudden stops and turning midair to quickly chase down targeted prey. Diamond Pearl Its eyes can see 360 degrees without moving its head. It won’t miss prey--even those behind it. Platinum It can hover in one spot by flapping its wings at high speed. It flits about to guard its territory. HeartGold If it flaps its wings really fast, it can generate shock waves that will shatter windows in the area. SoulSilver Its large eyes can scan 360 degrees. It looks in all directions to seek out insects as its prey. Black White It can hover in one spot by flapping its wings at high speed. It flits about to guard its territory. Black 2 White 2 By flapping its wings at high speed, it can fly freely through the air. Even sudden stops are no problem. X Its eyes can see 360 degrees without moving its head. It won’t miss prey--even those behind it. Y If it flaps its wings really fast, it can generate shock waves that will shatter windows in the area. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Yanma is capable of seeing 360 degrees without having to move its eyes. It is a great flier that is adept at making sudden stops and turning midair. This Pokémon uses its flying ability to quickly chase down targeted prey. 
Wooper		194	Generation 2	Water Ground 		Water Fish Pokemon	 Damp Water Absorb Unaware  		1′4″ (0.41m) 		18.7 lbs (8.5 kg) 		Basic form
Gold This POKéMON lives in cold water. It will leave the water to search for food when it gets cold outside. Silver When it walks around on the ground, it coats its body with a slimy, poisonous film. Crystal A mucous membrane covers its body. Touching it barehanded will cause a shooting pain. Ruby Sapphire WOOPER usually lives in water. However, it occasionally comes out onto land in search of food. On land, it coats its body with a gooey, toxic film. FireRed When it walks around on the ground, it coats its body with a slimy, poisonous film. LeafGreen This POKéMON lives in cold water. It will leave the water to search for food when it gets cold outside. Emerald WOOPER usually live in water but come out onto land seeking food occasionally. On land, they coat their bodies with a gooey, toxic film. Diamond It lives in cold water, half burying itself in mud at the bottom to sleep. Pearl When the temperature cools in the evening, they emerge from water to seek food along the shore. Platinum When walking on land, it covers its body with a poisonous film that keeps its skin from dehydrating. HeartGold This Pokémon lives in cold water. It will leave the water to search for food when it gets cold outside. SoulSilver When it walks around on the ground, it coats its body with a slimy, poisonous film. Black White Black 2 White 2 When walking on land, it covers its body with a poisonous film that keeps its skin from dehydrating. X This Pokémon lives in cold water. It will leave the water to search for food when it gets cold outside. Y When the temperature cools in the evening, they emerge from water to seek food along the shore. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Wooper usually lives in water. However, it occasionally comes out onto land in search of food. On land, it coats its body with a gooey, toxic film. 
Quagsire	195	Generation 2	Water Ground 		Water Fish Pokemon	 Damp Water Absorb Unaware  		4′7″ (1.40m) 		165.3 lbs (75.0 kg) 		First stage
Gold This carefree POKéMON has an easy-going nature. While swimming, it always bumps into boat hulls. Silver Due to its relaxed and carefree attitude, it often bumps its head on boulders and boat hulls as it swims. Crystal Its body is always slimy. It often bangs its head on the river bottom as it swims but seems not to care. Ruby Sapphire QUAGSIRE hunts for food by leaving its mouth wide open in water and waiting for its prey to blunder in unaware. Because the POKéMON does not move, it does not get very hungry. FireRed Due to its relaxed and carefree attitude, it often bumps its head on boulders and boat hulls as it swims. LeafGreen This carefree POKéMON has an easygoing nature. While swimming, it always bumps into boat hulls. Emerald A QUAGSIRE hunts by leaving its mouth wide open in water and waiting for its prey to blunder in. Because it doesn’t move, it does not get very hungry. Diamond It has a sluggish nature. It lies at the river’s bottom, waiting for prey to stray into its mouth. Pearl A dim-witted Pokémon. It doesn’t care if it bumps its head into boats or rocks while swimming. Platinum It has an easygoing nature. It doesn’t care if it bumps its head on boats and boulders while swimming. HeartGold This carefree Pokémon has an easy-going nature. While swimming, it always bumps into boat hulls. SoulSilver Due to its relaxed and carefree attitude, it often bumps its head on boulders and boat hulls as it swims. Black White Black 2 White 2 It has an easygoing nature. It doesn’t care if it bumps its head on boats and boulders while swimming. X It has a sluggish nature. It lies at the river’s bottom, waiting for prey to stray into its mouth. Y This carefree Pokémon has an easygoing nature. While swimming, it always bumps into boat hulls. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Quagsire hunts for food by leaving its mouth wide open in water and waiting for its prey to blunder in unaware. Because the Pokémon does not move, it does not get very hungry. 
Espeon		196	Generation 2	Psychic 		Sun Pokemon		 Synchronize Magic Bounce  		2′11″ (0.89m) 		58.4 lbs (26.5 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It uses the fine hair that covers its body to sense air currents and predict its enemy's actions. Silver By reading air currents, it can predict things such as the weather or its foe's next move. Crystal The tip of its forked tail quivers when it is predicting its opponent's next move. Ruby Sapphire ESPEON is extremely loyal to any TRAINER it considers to be worthy. It is said that this POKéMON developed its precognitive powers to protect its TRAINER from harm. FireRed By reading air currents, it can predict things such as the weather or its foe’s next move. LeafGreen It uses the fine hair that covers its body to sense air currents and predict its enemy’s actions. Emerald An ESPEON is extremely loyal to any TRAINER it considers to be worthy. It is said to have developed precognitive powers to protect its TRAINER from harm. Diamond Pearl Its fur has the look and feel of velvet. The orb on its forehead glows when it uses psycho-power. Platinum Its fur is so sensitive, it can sense minute shifts in the air and predict the weather. HeartGold It uses the fine hair that covers its body to sense air currents and predict its enemy’s actions. SoulSilver By reading air currents, it can predict things such as the weather or its foe’s next move. Black White Its fur is so sensitive, it can sense minute shifts in the air and predict the weather. Black 2 White 2 Its fur is so sensitive, it can feel minute shifts in the air and predict the weather...and its foes’ thoughts. X The tip of its forked tail quivers when it is predicting its opponent’s next move. Y Its fur is so sensitive, it can feel minute shifts in the air and predict the weather...and its foes’ thoughts. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Espeon is extremely loyal to any Trainer it considers to be worthy. It is said that this Pokémon developed its precognitive powers to protect its Trainer from harm. Sun It can instantaneously sense its opponent’s movements by feeling air currents with its fine fur. Moon It unleashes psychic power from the orb on its forehead. When its power is exhausted, the orb grows dull and dark. 
Umbreon		197	Generation 2	Dark 			Moonlight Pokemon	 Synchronize Inner Focus  		3′3″ (0.99m) 		59.5 lbs (27.0 kg) 		First stage
Gold When agitated, this POKéMON protects itself by spraying poisonous sweat from its pores. Silver When darkness falls, the rings on the body begin to glow, striking fear in the hearts of anyone nearby. Crystal On the night of a full moon, or when it gets excited, the ring patterns on its body glow yellow. Ruby Sapphire UMBREON evolved as a result of exposure to the moon’s waves. It hides silently in darkness and waits for its foes to make a move. The rings on its body glow when it leaps to attack. FireRed When darkness falls, the rings on its body begin to glow, striking fear in the hearts of anyone nearby. LeafGreen When agitated, this POKéMON protects itself by spraying poisonous sweat from its pores. Emerald UMBREON evolved from exposure to the moon’s energy pulses. It lurks in darkness and waits for its foes to move. The rings on its body glow when it leaps to attack. Diamond Pearl The light of the moon changed EEVEE’s genetic structure. It lurks in darkness for prey. Platinum When exposed to the moon’s aura, the rings on its body glow faintly and it gains a mysterious power. HeartGold When agitated, this Pokémon protects itself by spraying poisonous sweat from its pores. SoulSilver When darkness falls, the rings on the body begin to glow, striking fear in the hearts of anyone nearby. Black White When exposed to the moon’s aura, the rings on its body glow faintly and it gains a mysterious power. Black 2 White 2 When exposed to the moon’s aura, the rings on its body glow faintly and it’s filled with a mysterious power. X The light of the moon changed Eevee’s genetic structure. It lurks in darkness for prey. Y When exposed to the moon’s aura, the rings on its body glow faintly and it’s filled with a mysterious power. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Umbreon evolved as a result of exposure to the moon’s waves. It hides silently in darkness and waits for its foes to make a move. The rings on its body glow when it leaps to attack. Sun When this Pokémon becomes angry, its pores secrete a poisonous sweat, which it sprays at its opponent’s eyes. Moon With its black fur, it blends into the darkness. It bides its time, and when prey appears, this Pokémon goes for its throat, and then eats it. 
Murkrow		198	Generation 2	Dark Flying 		Darkness Pokemon	 Insomnia Super Luck Prankster  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		4.6 lbs (2.1 kg) 		Basic form
Gold Feared and loathed by many, it is believed to bring misfortune to all those who see it at night. Silver It is said that when chased, it lures its attacker onto dark mountain trails where the foe will get lost. Crystal It hides any shiny object it finds in a secret location. MURKROW and MEOWTH loot one another's stashes. Ruby Sapphire MURKROW was feared and loathed as the alleged bearer of ill fortune. This POKéMON shows strong interest in anything that sparkles or glitters. It will even try to steal rings from women. FireRed It is said that when chased, it lures its attacker onto dark mountain trails where the foe will get lost. LeafGreen Feared and loathed by many, it is believed to bring misfortune to all those who see it at night. Emerald MURKROW were feared as the alleged bearers of ill fortune. It shows strong interest in anything that sparkles. It will even try to steal rings from women. Diamond It is believed that seeing this Pokémon at night will bring about ominous occurrences. Pearl It appears near travelers to lure them into deep forests. It is said to carry misfortune. Platinum If spotted, it will lure an unwary person into chasing it, then lose the pursuer on mountain trails. HeartGold Feared and loathed by many, it is believed to bring misfortune to all those who see it at night. SoulSilver It is said that when chased, it lures its attacker onto dark mountain trails where the foe will get lost. Black White If spotted, it will lure an unwary person into chasing it, then lose the pursuer on mountain trails. Black 2 White 2 If spotted, it will lure an unwary person into chasing it then lose the pursuer on mountain trails. X It hides any shiny object it finds in a secret location. Murkrow and Meowth loot one another’s stashes. Y Feared and loathed by many, it is believed to bring misfortune to all those who see it at night. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Murkrow was feared and loathed as the alleged bearer of ill fortune. This Pokémon shows strong interest in anything that sparkles or glitters. It will even try to steal rings from women. Sun They awaken at dusk and take wing in the twilight, leading to the expression, “Get home before the Murkrow fly.” Moon Seen as a symbol of bad luck, it’s generally disliked. Yet it gives presents—objects that sparkle or shine—to Trainers it’s close to. 
Slowking	199	Generation 2	Water Psychic 		Royal Pokemon		 Oblivious Own Tempo Regenerator  	6′7″ (2.01m) 		175.3 lbs (79.5 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It has incredible intellect and intuition. Whatever the situation, it remains calm and collected. Silver When its head was bitten, toxins entered SLOWPOKE's head and unlocked an extraordinary power. Crystal Every time it yawns, SHELLDER injects more poison into it. The poison makes it more intelligent. Ruby Sapphire SLOWKING undertakes research every day in an effort to solve the mysteries of the world. However, this POKéMON apparently forgets everything it has learned if the SHELLDER on its head comes off. FireRed When its head was bitten, toxins entered SLOWPOKE’s head and unlocked an extraordinary power. LeafGreen It has incredible intellect and intuition. Whatever the situation, it remains calm and collected. Emerald It undertakes research every day to solve the mysteries of the world. However, it apparently forgets everything if the SHELLDER on its head comes off. Diamond Pearl Platinum Being bitten by SHELLDER gave it intelligence comparable to that of award-winning scientists. HeartGold It has incredible intellect and intuition. Whatever the situation, it remains calm and collected. SoulSilver When its head was bitten, toxins entered SLOWPOKE’s head and unlocked an extraordinary power. Black White Black 2 White 2 Being bitten by Shellder gave it intelligence comparable to that of award-winning scientists. X It has incredible intellect and intuition. Whatever the situation, it remains calm and collected. Y When its head was bitten, toxins entered Slowpoke’s head and unlocked an extraordinary power. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Slowking undertakes research every day in an effort to solve the mysteries of the world. However, this Pokémon apparently forgets everything it has learned if the Shellder on its head comes off. Sun A poisonous bite reacted with its system, blessing it with the enhanced intellect of a genius. It has full control of its psychic powers. Moon This Pokémon is so famed for its intellect that a proverb still persists in some regions: “When in doubt, ask Slowking.” 
Misdreavus	200	Generation 2	Ghost 			Screech Pokemon		 Levitate 				2′4″ (0.71m) 		2.2 lbs (1.0 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It likes playing mischievous tricks such as screaming and wailing to startle people at night. Silver It loves to bite and yank people's hair from behind without warning, just to see their shocked reactions. Crystal It loves to watch people it's scared. It frightens them by screaming loudly or appearing suddenly. Ruby Sapphire MISDREAVUS frightens people with a creepy, sobbing cry. The POKéMON apparently uses its red spheres to absorb the fearful feelings of foes and turn them into nutrition. FireRed It loves to bite and yank people’s hair from behind without warning, just to see their shocked reactions. LeafGreen It likes playing mischievous tricks such as screaming and wailing to startle people at night. Emerald A MISDREAVUS frightens people with a creepy, sobbing cry. It apparently uses its red spheres to absorb the fear of foes as its nutrition. Diamond It loves to sneak up on people late at night, then startle them with its shrieklike cry. Pearl It gets nourishment from fear that it absorbs into its red orbs. In daytime, it sleeps in darkness. Platinum A Pokémon that startles people in the middle of the night. It gathers fear as its energy. HeartGold It likes playing mischievous tricks, such as screaming and wailing to startle people at night. SoulSilver It loves to bite and yank people’s hair from behind without warning, just to see their shocked reactions. Black White Black 2 White 2 A Pokémon that startles people in the middle of the night. It gathers fear as its energy. X It gets nourishment from fear that it absorbs into its red orbs. In daytime, it sleeps in darkness. Y It likes playing mischievous tricks, such as screaming and wailing to startle people at night. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Misdreavus frightens people with a creepy, sobbing cry. The Pokémon apparently uses its red spheres to absorb the fearful feelings of foes and turn them into nutrition. Sun It will use any means necessary to frighten people and absorb their life energy. It practices constantly to hone its skill in causing fear. Moon If you hear a sobbing sound emanating from a vacant room, it’s undoubtedly a bit of mischief from Misdreavus. 
Unown		201	Generation 2	Psychic 		Symbol Pokemon		 Levitate 				1′8″ (0.51m) 		11 lbs (5.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Wobbuffet	202	Generation 2	Psychic 		Patient Pokemon		 Shadow Tag Telepathy  			4′3″ (1.30m) 		62.8 lbs (28.5 kg) 		First stage
Gold It hates light and shock. If attacked, it inflates its body to pump up its counterstrike. Silver To keep its pitch-black tail hidden, it lives quietly in the darkness. It is never first to attack. Crystal In order to conceal its black tail, it lives in a dark cave and only moves about at night. Ruby If two or more WOBBUFFET meet, they will turn competitive and try to outdo each other’s endurance. However, they may try to see which one can endure the longest without food. TRAINERS need to beware of this habit. Sapphire WOBBUFFET does nothing but endure attacks - it won’t attack on its own. However, it won’t endure an attack on its tail. When that happens, the POKéMON will try to take the foe with it using DESTINY BOND. FireRed To keep its pitch-black tail hidden, it lives quietly in the darkness. It is never first to attack. LeafGreen It hates light and shock. If attacked, it inflates its body to pump up its counterstrike. Emerald Usually docile, a WOBBUFFET strikes back ferociously if its black tail is attacked. It makes its lair in caves where it waits for nightfall. Diamond Pearl Platinum It desperately tries to keep its black tail hidden. It is said to be proof the tail hides a secret. HeartGold It hates light and shock. If attacked, it inflates its body to build up its counterstrike. SoulSilver To keep its pitch-black tail hidden, it lives quietly in the darkness. It is never first to attack. Black White Black 2 White 2 It desperately tries to keep its black tail hidden. It is said to be proof the tail hides a secret. X It hates light and shock. If attacked, it inflates its body to build up its counterstrike. Y To keep its pitch-black tail hidden, it lives quietly in the darkness. It is never first to attack. Omega Ruby If two or more Wobbuffet meet, they will turn competitive and try to outdo each other’s endurance. However, they may try to see which one can endure the longest without food. Trainers need to beware of this habit. Alpha Sapphire Wobbuffet does nothing but endure attacks—it won’t attack on its own. However, it won’t endure an attack on its tail. When that happens, the Pokémon will try to take the foe with it using Destiny Bond. 
Girafarig	203	Generation 2	Normal Psychic 		Long Neck Pokemon	 Early Bird Inner Focus Sap Sipper  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		91.5 lbs (41.5 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Pineco		204	Generation 2	Bug 			Bagworm Pokemon		 Sturdy Overcoat  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		15.9 lbs (7.2 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It likes to make its shell thicker by adding layers of tree bark. The additional weight doesn't bother it. Silver It hangs and waits for flying insect prey to come near. It does not move about much on its own. Crystal It spits out a fluid that it uses to glue tree bark to its body. The fluid hardens when it touches air. Ruby Sapphire PINECO hangs from a tree branch and patiently waits for prey to come along. If the POKéMON is disturbed while eating by someone shaking its tree, it drops down to the ground and explodes with no warning. FireRed It hangs and waits for flying-insect prey to come near. It does not move about much on its own. LeafGreen It likes to make its shell thicker by adding layers of tree bark. The extra weight doesn’t bother it. Emerald A PINECO hangs from a tree branch and waits for prey. While eating, if it is disturbed by someone shaking its tree, it falls on the ground and suddenly explodes. Diamond Pearl Platinum It looks just like a pinecone. Its shell protects it from bird Pokémon that peck it by mistake. HeartGold It likes to make its shell thicker by adding layers of tree bark. The additional weight doesn’t bother it. SoulSilver It hangs and waits for flying insect prey to come near. It does not move about much on its own. Black White Black 2 White 2 It looks just like a pinecone. Its shell protects it from bird Pokémon that peck it by mistake. X It likes to make its shell thicker by adding layers of tree bark. The additional weight doesn’t bother it. Y It looks just like a pinecone. Its shell protects it from bird Pokémon that peck it by mistake. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Pineco hangs from a tree branch and patiently waits for prey to come along. If the Pokémon is disturbed while eating by someone shaking its tree, it drops down to the ground and explodes with no warning. 
Forretress	205	Generation 2	Bug Steel 		Bagworm Pokemon		 Sturdy Overcoat  			3′11″ (1.19m) 		277.3 lbs (125.8 kg) 		First stage
Gold Its entire body is shielded by a steel-hard shell. What lurks inside the armor is a total mystery. Silver It remains immovably rooted to its tree. It scatters pieces of its hard shell to drive its enemies away. Crystal Usually found hanging on to a fat tree trunk. It shoots out bits of its shell when it sees action. Ruby Sapphire FORRETRESS conceals itself inside its hardened steel shell. The shell is opened when the POKéMON is catching prey, but it does so at such a quick pace that the shell’s inside cannot be seen. FireRed It remains immovably rooted to its tree. It scatters pieces of its hard shell to drive its enemies away. LeafGreen Its entire body is shielded by a steel-hard shell. What lurks inside the armor is a total mystery. Emerald It keeps itself inside its steel shell. The shell is opened when it is catching prey, but it is so quick that the shell’s inside cannot be seen. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is encased in a steel shell. Its peering eyes are all that can be seen of its mysterious innards. HeartGold Its entire body is shielded by a steel-hard shell. What lurks inside this shell is a total mystery. SoulSilver It remains immovably rooted to its tree. It scatters pieces of its hard shell to drive its enemies away. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is encased in a steel shell. Its peering eyes are all that can be seen of its mysterious innards. X It is encased in a steel shell. Its peering eyes are all that can be seen of its mysterious innards. Y It remains immovably rooted to its tree. It scatters pieces of its hard shell to drive its enemies away. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Forretress conceals itself inside its hardened steel shell. The shell is opened when the Pokémon is catching prey, but it does so at such a quick pace that the shell’s inside cannot be seen. 
Dunsparce	206	Generation 2	Normal 			Land Snake Pokemon	 Run Away Serene Grace Rattled  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		30.9 lbs (14.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Gligar		207	Generation 2	Ground Flying 		FlyScorpion Pokemon	 Hyper Cutter Sand Veil Immunity  	3′7″ (1.09m) 		142.9 lbs (64.8 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It flies straight at its target's face then clamps down on the startled victim to inject poison. Silver It usually clings to cliffs. When it spots its prey, it spreads its wings and glides down to attack. Crystal It builds its nest on a steep cliff. When it is done gliding, it hops along the ground back to its nest. Ruby Sapphire GLIGAR glides through the air without a sound as if it were sliding. This POKéMON hangs on to the face of its foe using its clawed hind legs and the large pincers on its forelegs, then injects the prey with its poison barb. FireRed It usually clings to cliffs. When it spots its prey, it spreads its wings and glides down to attack. LeafGreen It flies straight at its target’s face, then clamps down on the startled victim to inject poison. Emerald It glides without making a single sound. It grasps the face of its foe using its hind and large front claws, then stabs with its poison barb. Diamond Pearl It sails on the winds with its limbs extended to strike from the sky. It aims for the prey’s face. Platinum It glides as if sliding. It startles foes by clamping on to their faces, then jabs with its poison stinger. HeartGold It flies straight at its target’s face, then clamps down on the startled victim to inject poison. SoulSilver It usually clings to cliffs. When it spots its prey, it spreads its wings and glides down to attack. Black White It glides as if sliding. It startles foes by clamping on to their faces, then jabs with its poison stinger. Black 2 White 2 It clamps on to its chosen prey then jabs the stinger on its tail into the prey while it’s stunned with surprise. X It usually clings to cliffs. When it spots its prey, it spreads its wings and glides down to attack. Y It flies straight at its target’s face, then clamps down on the startled victim to inject poison. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Gligar glides through the air without a sound as if it were sliding. This Pokémon hangs on to the face of its foe using its clawed hind legs and the large pincers on its forelegs, then injects the prey with its poison barb. 
Steelix		208	Generation 2	Steel Ground 		Iron Snake Pokemon	 Rock Head Sturdy Sheer Force  	30′2″ (9.19m) 		881.8 lbs (400.0 kg) 		First stage
Gold Its body has been compressed deep under the ground. As a result, it is even harder than a diamond. Silver It is said that if an ONIX lives for over 100 years, its composition changes to become diamond-like. Crystal The many small metal particles that cover this POKéMON's body reflect bright light well. Ruby Sapphire STEELIX lives even further underground than ONIX. This POKéMON is known to dig towards the earth’s core. There are records of this POKéMON reaching a depth of over six-tenths of a mile underground. FireRed It is said that if an ONIX lives for over 100 years, its composition changes to become diamond-like. LeafGreen Its body has been compressed deep under the ground. As a result, it is even harder than diamond. Emerald STEELIX live even further underground than ONIX. This POKéMON is known to dig toward the earth’s core, reaching a depth of over six-tenths of a mile underground. Diamond Tempered underground under high pressure and heat, its body is harder than any metal. Pearl It chews its way through boulders with its sturdy jaws. Its eyes can see in the darkness underground. Platinum It is thought its body transformed as a result of iron accumulating internally from swallowing soil. HeartGold Its body has been compressed deep under the ground. As a result, it is even harder than a diamond. SoulSilver It’s said that if an ONIX lives for 100 years, its composition becomes diamondlike as it evolves into a STEELIX. Black White It is thought its body transformed as a result of iron accumulating internally from swallowing soil. Black 2 White 2 The iron it ingested with the soil it swallowed transformed its body and made it harder than diamonds. X Tempered underground under high pressure and heat, its body is harder than any metal. Y It chews its way through boulders with its sturdy jaws. Its eyes can see in the darkness underground. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Steelix lives even further underground than Onix. This Pokémon is known to dig toward the earth’s core. There are records of this Pokémon reaching a depth of over six-tenths of a mile underground. 
Snubbull	209	Generation 2	Fairy 			Fairy Pokemon		 Intimidate Run Away Rattled  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		17.2 lbs (7.8 kg) 		Basic form
Gold Although it looks frightening, it is actually kind and affectionate. It is very popular among women. Silver It has an active, playful nature. Many women like to frolic with it because of its affectionate ways. Crystal In truth, it is a cowardly POKéMON. It growls eagerly in order to hide its fear from its opponent. Ruby Sapphire By baring its fangs and making a scary face, SNUBBULL sends smaller POKéMON scurrying away in terror. However, this POKéMON seems a little sad at making its foes flee. FireRed It has an active, playful nature. Many women like to frolic with it because of its affectionate ways. LeafGreen Although it looks frightening, it is actually kind and affectionate. It is very popular among women. Emerald By baring its fangs and making a scary face, it sends smaller POKéMON scurrying in terror. The SNUBBULL does seem a little sad at making its foes flee. Diamond Pearl Platinum Small Pokémon flee from its scary face. It is, however, considered by women to be cute. HeartGold Although it looks frightening, it is actually kind and affectionate. It is very popular among women. SoulSilver It has an active, playful nature. Many women like to frolic with it because of its affectionate ways. Black White Black 2 White 2 Small Pokémon flee from its scary face. It is, however, considered by women to be cute. X It has an active, playful nature. Many women like to frolic with it because of its affectionate ways. Y Small Pokémon flee from its scary face. It is, however, considered by women to be cute. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire By baring its fangs and making a scary face, Snubbull sends smaller Pokémon scurrying away in terror. However, this Pokémon seems a little sad at making its foes flee. Sun Despite its intimidating face, it’s quite cowardly. Its desperate attempts to appear threatening make it popular with people. Moon Its growls make its opponents uneasy. This laid-back Pokémon tends to sleep half the day. 
Granbull	210	Generation 2	Fairy 			Fairy Pokemon		 Intimidate Quick Feet Rattled  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		107.4 lbs (48.7 kg) 		First stage
Gold It is actually timid and easily spooked. If attacked, it flails about to fend off its attacker. Silver Because its fangs are too heavy, it always keeps its head tilted down. However, its BITE is powerful. Crystal It can make most any POKéMON run away simply by opening its mouth wide to reveal its big fangs. Ruby Sapphire GRANBULL has a particularly well-developed lower jaw. The enormous fangs are heavy, causing the POKéMON to tip its head back for balance. Unless it is startled, it will not try to bite indiscriminately. FireRed Because its fangs are too heavy, it always keeps its head tilted down. However, its BITE is powerful. LeafGreen It is actually timid and easily spooked. If attacked, it flails about to fend off its attacker. Emerald It has a particularly well-developed lower jaw. The huge fangs are heavy, causing it to tilt its head. Unless it is startled, it will not try to bite. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is timid in spite of its looks. If it becomes enraged, however, it will strike with its huge fangs. HeartGold It is actually timid and easily spooked. If attacked, it flails about to fend off its attacker. SoulSilver Because its fangs are too heavy, it always keeps its head tilted down. However, its bite is powerful. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is timid in spite of its looks. If it becomes enraged, however, it will strike with its huge fangs. X It is timid in spite of its looks. If it becomes enraged, however, it will strike with its huge fangs. Y It can make most any Pokémon run away simply by opening its mouth wide to reveal its big fangs. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Granbull has a particularly well-developed lower jaw. The enormous fangs are heavy, causing the Pokémon to tip its head back for balance. Unless it is startled, it will not try to bite indiscriminately. Sun Its well-developed lower jaw and heavy fangs are its weapons. As long as it’s not provoked, it rarely bites. Moon More timid than Snubbull, this Pokémon is doted on by young people amused at the contrast between its looks and its attitude. 
Qwilfish	211	Generation 2	Water Poison 		Balloon Pokemon		 Poison Point Swift Swim Intimidate  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		8.6 lbs (3.9 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Scizor		212	Generation 2	Bug Steel 		Pincer Pokemon		 Swarm Technician Light Metal  	5′11″ (1.80m) 		260.1 lbs (118.0 kg) 		First stage
Gold It swings its eye-patterned pincers up to scare its foes. This makes it look like it has three heads. Silver Its wings are not used for flying. They are flapped at high speed to adjust its body temperature. Crystal This POKéMON's pincers, which contain steel, can crush any hard object it gets a hold of into bits. Ruby Sapphire SCIZOR has a body with the hardness of steel. It is not easily fazed by ordinary sorts of attacks. This POKéMON flaps its wings to regulate its body temperature. FireRed Its wings are not used for flying. They are flapped at high speed to adjust its body temperature. LeafGreen It swings its eye-patterned pincers up to scare its foes. This makes it look like it has three heads. Emerald A SCIZOR has a body with the hardness of steel. It is not easily fazed by ordinary sorts of attacks. It flaps its wings to regulate its body temperature. Diamond Pearl It has a steel-hard body. It intimidates foes by upraising its eye-patterned pincers. Platinum It raises its pincers with eyelike markings for intimidation. It also swings them down dangerously. HeartGold It swings its eye-patterned pincers up to scare its foes. This makes it look like it has three heads. SoulSilver Its wings are not used for flying. They are flapped at high speed to adjust its body temperature. Black White Black 2 White 2 It raises its pincers with eyelike markings for intimidation. It also swings them down dangerously. X This Pokémon’s pincers, which contain steel, can crush any hard object it gets ahold of into bits. Y It has a steel-hard body. It intimidates foes by upraising its eye-patterned pincers. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Scizor has a body with the hardness of steel. It is not easily fazed by ordinary sorts of attacks. This Pokémon flaps its wings to regulate its body temperature. Sun It uses its wings to adjust its body temperature. Otherwise, its metal body would become too hot and melt in the heat of battle. Moon Once it has identified an enemy, this Pokémon smashes it mercilessly with pincers hard as steel. 
Shuckle		213	Generation 2	Bug Rock 		Mold Pokemon		 Gluttony Sturdy Contrary  		2′0″ (0.61m) 		45.2 lbs (20.5 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Heracross	214	Generation 2	Bug Fighting 		Single Horn Pokemon	 Guts Swarm Moxie  			4′11″ (1.50m) 		119 lbs (54.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Sneasel		215	Generation 2	Dark Ice 		Sharp Claw Pokemon	 Inner Focus Keen Eye Pickpocket  	2′11″ (0.89m) 		61.7 lbs (28.0 kg) 		Basic form
Gold Its paws conceal sharp claws. If attacked, it suddenly extends the claws and startles its enemy. Silver Vicious in nature, it drives PIDGEY from their nests and feasts on the eggs that are left behind. Crystal This cunning POKéMON hides under the cover of darkness, waiting to attack its prey. Ruby Sapphire SNEASEL scales trees by punching its hooked claws into the bark. This POKéMON seeks out unguarded nests and steals eggs for food while the parents are away. FireRed Vicious in nature, it drives PIDGEY from their nests and feasts on the eggs that are left behind. LeafGreen Its paws conceal sharp claws. If attacked, it suddenly extends the claws and startles its enemy. Emerald A SNEASEL scales trees by punching its hooked claws into the bark. It seeks out unguarded nests and steals eggs for food while the parents are away. Diamond It feeds on eggs stolen from nests. Its sharply hooked claws rip vulnerable spots on prey. Pearl It is extremely vicious and will not stop attacking until its foe is incapable of moving. Platinum A smart and sneaky Pokémon. A pair may work together to steal eggs by having one lure the parents away. HeartGold Its paws conceal sharp claws. If attacked, it suddenly extends the claws and startles its enemy. SoulSilver Vicious in nature, it drives PIDGEY from their nests and scavenges any leftovers it can find. Black White A smart and sneaky Pokémon. A pair may work together to steal eggs by having one lure the parents away. Black 2 White 2 A smart and sneaky Pokémon, it makes its opponents flinch by suddenly showing the claws hidden in its paws. X It feeds on eggs stolen from nests. Its sharply hooked claws rip vulnerable spots on prey. Y Its paws conceal sharp claws. If attacked, it suddenly extends the claws and startles its enemy. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Sneasel scales trees by punching its hooked claws into the bark. This Pokémon seeks out unguarded nests and steals eggs for food while the parents are away. Sun It has a cunning yet savage disposition. It waits for parents to leave their nests, and then it sneaks in to steal their eggs. Moon It uses its claws to poke holes in eggs so it can slurp out the insides. Breeders consider it a scourge and will drive it away or eradicate it. 
Teddiursa	216	Generation 2	Normal 			Little Bear Pokemon	 Pickup Quick Feet Honey Gather  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		19.4 lbs (8.8 kg) 		Basic form
Gold If it finds honey, its crescent mark glows. It always licks its paws because they are soaked with honey. Silver Before food becomes scarce in wintertime, its habit is to hoard food in many hidden locations. Crystal It always licks honey. Its palm tastes sweet because of all the honey it has absorbed. Ruby Sapphire This POKéMON likes to lick its palms that are sweetened by being soaked in honey. TEDDIURSA concocts its own honey by blending fruits and pollen collected by BEEDRILL. FireRed Before food becomes scarce in wintertime, its habit is to hoard food in many hidden locations. LeafGreen If it finds honey, its crescent mark glows. It always licks its paws because they are soaked with honey. Emerald It licks its palms that are sweetened by being soaked in honey. A TEDDIURSA makes its own honey by blending fruits and pollen collected by BEEDRILL. Diamond Pearl Platinum It lets honey soak into its paws so it can lick them all the time. Every set of paws tastes unique. HeartGold If it finds honey, its crescent mark glows. It always licks its paws because they’re soaked with honey. SoulSilver Before food becomes scarce in wintertime, its habit is to hoard food in many hidden locations. Black White Black 2 White 2 It lets honey soak into its paws so it can lick them all the time. Every set of paws tastes unique. X If it finds honey, its crescent mark glows. It always licks its paws because they’re soaked with honey. Y Before food becomes scarce in wintertime, its habit is to hoard food in many hidden locations. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire This Pokémon likes to lick its palms that are sweetened by being soaked in honey. Teddiursa concocts its own honey by blending fruits and pollen collected by Beedrill. 
Ursaring	217	Generation 2	Normal 			Hibernator Pokemon	 Guts Quick Feet Unnerve  		5′11″ (1.80m) 		277.3 lbs (125.8 kg) 		First stage
Gold Although it is a good climber, it prefers to snap trees with its forelegs and eat fallen BERRIES. Silver With its ability to distinguish any aroma, it unfailingly finds all food buried deep underground. Crystal Although it has a large body, it is quite skilled at climbing trees. It eats and sleeps in the treetops. Ruby Sapphire In the forests inhabited by URSARING, it is said that there are many streams and towering trees where they gather food. This POKéMON walks through its forest gathering food every day. FireRed With its ability to distinguish any smell, it unfailingly finds all food buried deep underground. LeafGreen Although it is a good climber, it prefers to snap stout trees with its forelegs and eat fallen BERRIES. Emerald In forests, it is said that there are many streams and towering trees where an URSARING gathers food. It walks through its forest collecting food every day. Diamond Pearl Platinum In its territory, it leaves scratches on trees that bear delicious berries or fruits. HeartGold Although it is a good climber, it prefers to snap trees with its forelegs and eat fallen berries. SoulSilver With its ability to distinguish any aroma, it unfailingly finds all food buried deep underground. Black White Black 2 White 2 In its territory, it leaves scratches on trees that bear delicious berries or fruits. X With its ability to distinguish any aroma, it unfailingly finds all food buried deep underground. Y Although it has a large body, it is quite skilled at climbing trees. It eats and sleeps in the treetops. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire In the forests inhabited by Ursaring, it is said that there are many streams and towering trees where they gather food. This Pokémon walks through its forest gathering food every day. 
Slugma		218	Generation 2	Fire 			Lava Pokemon		 Flame Body Magma Armor Weak Armor  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		77.2 lbs (35.0 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It never sleeps. It has to keep moving because if it stopped, its magma body would cool and harden. Silver A common sight in volcanic areas, it slowly slithers around in a constant search for warm places. Crystal These group together in areas that are hotter than normal. If it cools off, its skin hardens. Ruby Molten magma courses throughout SLUGMA’s circulatory system. If this POKéMON is chilled, the magma cools and hardens. Its body turns brittle and chunks fall off, reducing its size. Sapphire SLUGMA does not have any blood in its body. Instead, intensely hot magma circulates throughout this POKéMON’s body, carrying essential nutrients and oxygen to its organs. FireRed A common sight in volcanic areas, it slowly slithers around in a constant search for warm places. LeafGreen It never sleeps. It has to keep moving because if it stopped, its magma body would cool and harden. Emerald It is a species of POKéMON that lives in volcanic areas. If its body cools, its skin hardens and immobilizes it. To avoid that, it sleeps near magma. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its body is made of magma. If it doesn’t keep moving, its body will cool and harden. HeartGold It never sleeps. It has to keep moving because if it stopped, its magma body would cool and harden. SoulSilver A common sight in volcanic areas, it slowly slithers around in a constant search for warm places. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its body is made of magma. If it doesn’t keep moving, its body will cool and harden. X A common sight in volcanic areas, it slowly slithers around in a constant search for warm places. Y Its body is made of magma. If it doesn’t keep moving, its body will cool and harden. Omega Ruby Molten magma courses throughout Slugma’s circulatory system. If this Pokémon is chilled, the magma cools and hardens. Its body turns brittle and chunks fall off, reducing its size. Alpha Sapphire Slugma does not have any blood in its body. Instead, intensely hot magma circulates throughout this Pokémon’s body, carrying essential nutrients and oxygen to its organs. 
Magcargo	219	Generation 2	Fire Rock 		Lava Pokemon		 Flame Body Magma Armor Weak Armor  	2′7″ (0.79m) 		121.3 lbs (55.0 kg) 		First stage
Gold The shell on its back is just skin that has cooled and hardened. It breaks easily with a slight touch. Silver Its brittle shell occasionally spouts intense flames that circulate throughout its body. Crystal Its body is as hot as lava and is always billowing. Flames will occasionally burst from its shell. Ruby MAGCARGO’s shell is actually its skin that hardened as a result of cooling. Its shell is very brittle and fragile - just touching it causes it to crumble apart. This POKéMON returns to its original size by dipping itself in magma. Sapphire MAGCARGO’s body temperature is approximately 18,000 degrees F. Water is vaporized on contact. If this POKéMON is caught in the rain, the raindrops instantly turn into steam, cloaking the area in a thick fog. FireRed Its brittle shell occasionally spouts intense flames that circulate throughout its body. LeafGreen The shell on its back is just skin that has cooled and hardened. It breaks easily with a slight touch. Emerald The shell on its back is made of hardened magma. Tens of thousands of years spent living in volcanic craters have turned MAGCARGO’s bodies into magma. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its body temperature is roughly 18,000 degrees F. Flames spout from gaps in its hardened shell. HeartGold The shell on its back is just skin that has cooled and hardened. It breaks easily with a slight touch. SoulSilver Its brittle shell occasionally spouts intense flames that circulate throughout its body. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its body temperature is roughly 18,000 degrees F. Flames spout from gaps in its hardened shell. X Its brittle shell occasionally spouts intense flames that circulate throughout its body. Y Its body is as hot as lava and is always billowing. Flames will occasionally burst from its shell. Omega Ruby Magcargo’s shell is actually its skin that hardened as a result of cooling. Its shell is very brittle and fragile—just touching it causes it to crumble apart. This Pokémon returns to its original size by dipping itself in magma. Alpha Sapphire Magcargo’s body temperature is approximately 18,000 degrees Fahrenheit. Water is vaporized on contact. If this Pokémon is caught in the rain, the raindrops instantly turn into steam, cloaking the area in a thick fog. 
Swinub		220	Generation 2	Ice Ground 		Pig Pokemon		 Oblivious Snow Cloak Thick Fat  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		14.3 lbs (6.5 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It rubs its snout on the ground to find and dig up food. It sometimes discovers hot springs. Silver If it smells something enticing, it dashes headlong off to find the source of the aroma. Crystal It uses the tip of its nose to dig for food. Its nose is so tough that even frozen ground poses no problem. Ruby Sapphire SWINUB roots for food by rubbing its snout against the ground. Its favorite food is a mushroom that grows under the cover of dead grass. This POKéMON occasionally roots out hot springs. FireRed If it smells something enticing, it dashes off headlong to find the source of the aroma. LeafGreen It rubs its snout on the ground to find and dig up food. It sometimes discovers hot springs. Emerald It roots for food by rubbing its snout against the ground. Its favorite food is a mushroom that grows under dried grass. It occasionally roots out hot springs. Diamond Pearl It loves eating mushrooms that grow under dead grass. It also finds hot springs while foraging. Platinum It has a very sensitive nose. It can locate mushrooms, berries, and even hot springs buried under ice. HeartGold It rubs its snout on the ground to find and dig up food. It sometimes discovers hot springs. SoulSilver If it smells something enticing, it dashes off headlong to find the source of the aroma. Black White It has a very sensitive nose. It can locate mushrooms, berries, and even hot springs buried under ice. Black 2 White 2 Rooting the tip of its snout into the ground, it searches for food. Sometimes it even digs up a hot spring. X It rubs its snout on the ground to find and dig up food. It sometimes discovers hot springs. Y If it smells something enticing, it dashes off headlong to find the source of the aroma. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Swinub roots for food by rubbing its snout against the ground. Its favorite food is a mushroom that grows under the cover of dead grass. This Pokémon occasionally roots out hot springs. 
Piloswine	221	Generation 2	Ice Ground 		Swine Pokemon		 Oblivious Snow Cloak Thick Fat  	3′7″ (1.09m) 		123 lbs (55.8 kg) 		First stage
Gold Because the long hair all over its body obscures its sight, it just keeps charging repeatedly. Silver If it charges at an enemy, the hairs on its back stand up straight. It is very sensitive to sound. Crystal Although its legs are short, its rugged hooves prevent it from slipping, even on icy ground. Ruby Sapphire PILOSWINE is covered by a thick coat of long hair that enables it to endure the freezing cold. This POKéMON uses its tusks to dig up food that has been buried under ice. FireRed If it charges at an enemy, the hairs on its back stand up straight. It is very sensitive to sound. LeafGreen Because the long hair all over its body obscures its sight, it just keeps charging repeatedly. Emerald A PILOSWINE is covered by a thick coat of long hair for enduring freezing cold. It uses its tusks to dig up food that has been buried under ice. Diamond Pearl Its shaggy coat makes it unable to see. It checks surroundings with its sensitive nose instead. Platinum Covered by a shaggy coat, it is strong against the cold. Its tusks of ice thicken when it snows. HeartGold Because the long hair all over its body obscures its sight, it just keeps charging repeatedly. SoulSilver If it charges at an enemy, the hairs on its back stand up straight. It is very sensitive to sound. Black White Covered by a shaggy coat, it is strong against the cold. Its tusks of ice thicken when it snows. Black 2 White 2 With its excellent sense of smell, it’s even able to find mushrooms that are buried under frozen ground. X Although its legs are short, its rugged hooves prevent it from slipping, even on icy ground. Y Because the long hair all over its body obscures its sight, it just keeps charging repeatedly. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Piloswine is covered by a thick coat of long hair that enables it to endure the freezing cold. This Pokémon uses its tusks to dig up food that has been buried under ice. 
Corsola		222	Generation 2	Water Rock 		Coral Pokemon		 Hustle Natural Cure Regenerator  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		11 lbs (5.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Remoraid	223	Generation 2	Water 			Jet Pokemon		 Hustle Sniper Moody  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		26.5 lbs (12.0 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It has superb accuracy. The water it shoots out can strike even moving prey from more than 300 feet. Silver Using its dorsal fin as a suction pad, it clings to a MANTINE's underside to scavenge for leftovers. Crystal To escape from an attacker, it may shoot water out of its mouth, then use that force to swim backward. Ruby Sapphire REMORAID sucks in water, then expels it at high velocity using its abdominal muscles to shoot down flying prey. When evolution draws near, this POKéMON travels downstream from rivers. FireRed Using its dorsal fin as a suction pad, it clings to a MANTINE’s underside to scavenge for leftovers. LeafGreen It has superb accuracy. The water it shoots out can strike even moving prey from more than 100 yards. Emerald A REMORAID uses its abdominal muscles to forcefully expel swallowed water, then shoot down flying prey. When evolution approaches, it travels down rivers. Diamond It squirts water forcefully from its mouth to shoot down flying prey. Pearl It clings to MANTINE to feed on the big Pokémon’s scraps. This is an adaptation to avoid foes. Platinum It forcefully squirts water. The water jet never misses prey even if the REMORAID is deep in the sea. HeartGold It has superb accuracy. The water it shoots out can strike moving prey from more than 300 feet away. SoulSilver Using its dorsal fin as a suction pad, it clings to a MANTINE’s underside to scavenge for leftovers. Black White It forcefully squirts water. The water jet never misses prey even if the Remoraid is deep in the sea. Black 2 White 2 The water they shoot from their mouths can hit moving prey from more than 300 feet away. X It has superb accuracy. The water it shoots out can strike moving prey from more than 300 feet away. Y Using its dorsal fin as a suction pad, it clings to a Mantine’s underside to scavenge for leftovers. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Remoraid sucks in water, then expels it at high velocity using its abdominal muscles to shoot down flying prey. When evolution draws near, this Pokémon travels downstream from rivers. 
Octillery	224	Generation 2	Water 			Jet Pokemon		 Sniper Suction Cups Moody  		2′11″ (0.89m) 		62.8 lbs (28.5 kg) 		First stage
Gold It traps enemies with its suction-cupped tentacles then smashes them with its rock-hard head. Silver It instinctively sneaks into rocky holes. If it gets sleepy, it steals the nest of a fellow OCTILLERY. Crystal Its instinct is to bury itself in holes. It often steals the nesting holes of others to sleep in them. Ruby Sapphire OCTILLERY grabs onto its foe using its tentacles. This POKéMON tries to immobilize it before delivering the finishing blow. If the foe turns out to be too strong, OCTILLERY spews ink to escape. FireRed It instinctively sneaks into rocky holes. If it gets sleepy, it steals the nest of a fellow OCTILLERY. LeafGreen It traps enemies with its suction-cupped tentacles, then smashes them with its rock-hard head. Emerald It ensnares its foe with its suction-cupped tentacles before delivering the finishing blow. If the foe turns out to be too strong, it spews ink to escape. Diamond It lives in the gaps of boulders and in holes on the seafloor. Its suction cups grip prey tightly. Pearl It obscures its foe’s vision by spitting a cloud of murky ink. It makes its nest among boulders. Platinum It loves to lurk inside holes in rocks. It sometimes sprays ink on prey by sticking out only its mouth. HeartGold It traps foes with the suction cups on its tentacles, then smashes them with its rock-hard head. SoulSilver It instinctively sneaks into rocky holes. If it gets sleepy, it steals the nest of a fellow OCTILLERY. Black White It loves to lurk inside holes in rocks. It sometimes sprays ink on prey by sticking out only its mouth. Black 2 White 2 It has a tendency to want to be in holes. It prefers rock crags or pots and sprays ink from them before attacking. X It has a tendency to want to be in holes. It prefers rock crags or pots and sprays ink from them before attacking. Y It traps foes with the suction cups on its tentacles, then smashes them with its rock-hard head. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Octillery grabs onto its foe using its tentacles. This Pokémon tries to immobilize it before delivering the finishing blow. If the foe turns out to be too strong, Octillery spews ink to escape. 
Delibird	225	Generation 2	Ice Flying 		Delivery Pokemon	 Hustle Vital Spirit Insomnia  	2′11″ (0.89m) 		35.3 lbs (16.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Mantine		226	Generation 2	Water Flying 		Kite Pokemon		 Swift Swim Water Absorb Water Veil  	6′11″ (2.11m) 		485 lbs (220.0 kg) 		First stage
Gold As it majestically swims, it doesn't care if REMORAID attach to it for scavenging its leftovers. Silver Swimming freely in open seas, it may fly out of the water and over the waves if it builds up enough speed. Crystal It swims along freely, eating things that swim into its mouth. Its whole body is very coarse. Ruby Sapphire On sunny days, schools of MANTINE can be seen elegantly leaping over the sea’s waves. This POKéMON is not bothered by the REMORAID that hitches rides. FireRed Swimming freely in open seas, it may fly out of the water and over the waves if it builds up enough speed. LeafGreen As it majestically swims, it doesn’t care if REMORAID attach to it to scavenge for its leftovers. Emerald On sunny days, schools of MANTINE can be seen elegantly leaping over the waves. It is not bothered by the REMORAID that hitches rides. Diamond When the waves are calm, one may encounter a swarm of MANTINE swimming as if they are in flight. Pearl It swims elegantly, mindless of REMORAID hitching on to its broad fins. It has a docile nature. Platinum While elegantly swimming in the sea, it ignores REMORAID that cling to its fins seeking food scraps. HeartGold As it majestically swims, it doesn’t care if REMORAID attach to it for scavenging its leftovers. SoulSilver Swimming freely in open seas, it may fly out of the water and over the waves if it builds up enough speed. Black White While elegantly swimming in the sea, it ignores Remoraid that cling to its fins seeking food scraps. Black 2 White 2 If it builds up enough speed swimming, it can fly over 300 feet out of the water from the surface of the ocean. X If it builds up enough speed swimming, it can fly over 300 feet out of the water from the surface of the ocean. Y While elegantly swimming in the sea, it ignores Remoraid that cling to its fins seeking food scraps. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire On sunny days, schools of Mantine can be seen elegantly leaping over the sea’s waves. This Pokémon is not bothered by the Remoraid that hitches rides. 
Skarmory	227	Generation 2	Steel Flying 		Armor Bird Pokemon	 Keen Eye Sturdy Weak Armor  	5′7″ (1.70m) 		111.3 lbs (50.5 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Houndour	228	Generation 2	Dark Fire 		Dark Pokemon		 Early Bird Flash Fire Unnerve  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		23.8 lbs (10.8 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It uses different kinds of cries for communicating with others of its kind and for pursuing its prey. Silver To corner prey, they check each other's location using barks that only they can understand. Crystal Around dawn, its ominous howl echoes through the area to announce that this is its territory. Ruby Sapphire HOUNDOUR hunt as a coordinated pack. They communicate with each other using a variety of cries to corner their prey. This POKéMON’s remarkable teamwork is unparalleled. FireRed To corner prey, they check each other’s location using barks that only they can understand. LeafGreen It uses different kinds of cries for communicating with others of its kind and for pursuing prey. Emerald HOUNDOUR communicate with each other using a variety of cries to corner their prey. This POKéMON’s remarkable teamwork is simply unparalleled. Diamond Pearl It conveys its feelings using different cries. It works in a pack to cleverly take down prey. Platinum It is smart enough to hunt in packs. It uses a variety of cries for communicating with others. HeartGold It uses different kinds of cries for communicating with others of its kind and for pursuing its prey. SoulSilver To corner prey, they check each other’s location using barks that only they can understand. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is smart enough to hunt in packs. It uses a variety of cries for communicating with others. X Around dawn, its ominous howl echoes through the area to announce that this is its territory. Y To corner prey, they check each other’s location using barks that only they can understand. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Houndour hunt as a coordinated pack. They communicate with each other using a variety of cries to corner their prey. This Pokémon’s remarkable teamwork is unparalleled. 
Houndoom	229	Generation 2	Dark Fire 		Dark Pokemon		 Early Bird Flash Fire Unnerve  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		77.2 lbs (35.0 kg) 		First stage
Gold If you are burned by the flames it shoots from its mouth, the pain will never go away. Silver Upon hearing its eerie howls, other POKéMON get the shivers and head straight back to their nests. Crystal The pungent-smelling flame that shoots from its mouth results from toxins burning in its body. Ruby Sapphire In a HOUNDOOM pack, the one with its horns raked sharply towards the back serves a leadership role. These POKéMON choose their leader by fighting amongst themselves. FireRed Upon hearing its eerie howls, other POKéMON get the shivers and head straight back to their nests. LeafGreen If you are burned by the flames it shoots from its mouth, the pain will never go away. Emerald In a HOUNDOOM pack, the one with its horns raked sharply back serves a leadership role. They choose their leader by fighting among themselves. Diamond Pearl Long ago, people imagined its eerie howls to be the call of the grim reaper. Platinum The flames it breathes when angry contain toxins. If they cause a burn, it will hurt forever. HeartGold If you are burned by the flames it shoots from its mouth, the pain will never go away. SoulSilver Upon hearing its eerie howls, other Pokémon get the shivers and head straight back to their nests. Black White Black 2 White 2 The flames it breathes when angry contain toxins. If they cause a burn, it will hurt forever. X Long ago, people imagined its eerie howls to be the call of the grim reaper. Y The flames it breathes when angry contain toxins. If they cause a burn, it will hurt forever. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire In a Houndoom pack, the one with its horns raked sharply toward the back serves a leadership role. These Pokémon choose their leader by fighting among themselves. 
Kingdra		230	Generation 2	Water Dragon 		Dragon Pokemon		 Sniper Swift Swim Damp  		5′11″ (1.80m) 		335.1 lbs (152.0 kg) 		Second stage
Gold It is said that it usually hides in underwater caves. It can create whirlpools by yawning. Silver It sleeps deep on the ocean floor to build its energy. It is said to cause tornadoes as it wakes. Crystal It stores energy by sleeping at underwater depths at which no other life forms can survive. Ruby KINGDRA lives at extreme ocean depths that are otherwise uninhabited. It has long been believed that the yawning of this POKéMON creates spiraling ocean currents. Sapphire KINGDRA sleeps on the seafloor where it is otherwise devoid of life. When a storm arrives, the POKéMON is said to awaken and wander about in search of prey. FireRed It sleeps deep on the ocean floor to build its energy. It is said to cause tornadoes as it wakes. LeafGreen It is said that it usually hides in underwater caves. It can create whirlpools by yawning. Emerald It sleeps quietly, deep on the seafloor. When it comes up to the surface, it creates a huge whirlpool that can swallow even ships. Diamond Pearl Platinum It lives in caves on the seafloor and creates giant whirlpools every time it moves. HeartGold It is said that it usually hides in underwater caves. It can create whirlpools by yawning. SoulSilver It sleeps deep on the ocean floor to build its energy. It is said to cause tornadoes as it wakes. Black White Black 2 White 2 It lives in caves on the seafloor and creates giant whirlpools every time it moves. X It is said that it usually hides in underwater caves. It can create whirlpools by yawning. Y It stores energy by sleeping at underwater depths at which no other life-forms can survive. Omega Ruby Kingdra lives at extreme ocean depths that are otherwise uninhabited. It has long been believed that the yawning of this Pokémon creates spiraling ocean currents. Alpha Sapphire Kingdra sleeps on the seafloor where it is otherwise devoid of life. When a storm arrives, the Pokémon is said to awaken and wander about in search of prey. 
Phanpy		231	Generation 2	Ground 			Long Nose Pokemon	 Pickup Sand Veil  			1′8″ (0.51m) 		73.9 lbs (33.5 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It swings its long snout around playfully, but because it is so strong, that can be dangerous. Silver As a sign of affection, it bumps with its snout. However, it is so strong, it may send you flying. Crystal During the deserted morning hours, it comes ashore where it deftly uses its trunk to take a shower. Ruby For its nest, PHANPY digs a vertical pit in the ground at the edge of a river. It marks the area around its nest with its trunk to let the others know that the area has been claimed. Sapphire PHANPY uses its long nose to shower itself. When others gather around, they thoroughly douse each other with water. These POKéMON can be seen drying their soaking-wet bodies at the edge of water. FireRed As a sign of affection, it bumps with its snout. However, it is so strong, it may send you flying. LeafGreen It swings its long snout around playfully, but because it is so strong, this can be dangerous. Emerald PHANPY’s big ears serve as broad fans. When it becomes hot, it flaps the ears busily to cool down. Even the young are very strong. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is strong despite its compact size. It can easily pick up and carry an adult human on its back. HeartGold It swings its long snout around playfully, but because it is so strong, that can be dangerous. SoulSilver As a sign of affection, it bumps with its snout. However, it is so strong, it may send you flying. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is strong despite its compact size. It can easily pick up and carry an adult human on its back. X As a sign of affection, it bumps with its snout. However, it is so strong, it may send you flying. Y It is strong despite its compact size. It can easily pick up and carry an adult human on its back. Omega Ruby For its nest, Phanpy digs a vertical pit in the ground at the edge of a river. It marks the area around its nest with its trunk to let the others know that the area has been claimed. Alpha Sapphire Phanpy uses its long nose to shower itself. When others gather around, they thoroughly douse each other with water. These Pokémon can be seen drying their soaking-wet bodies at the edge of water. 
Donphan		232	Generation 2	Ground 			Armor Pokemon		 Sturdy Sand Veil  			3′7″ (1.09m) 		264.6 lbs (120.0 kg) 		First stage
Gold It has sharp, hard tusks and a rugged hide. Its TACKLE is strong enough to knock down a house. Silver The longer and bigger its tusks, the higher its rank in its herd. The tusks take long to grow. Crystal Because this POKéMON's skin is so tough, a normal attack won't even leave a scratch on it. Ruby DONPHAN’s favorite attack is curling its body into a ball, then charging at its foe while rolling at high speed. Once it starts rolling, this POKéMON can’t stop very easily. Sapphire If DONPHAN were to tackle with its hard body, even a house could be destroyed. Using its massive strength, the POKéMON helps clear rock and mud slides that block mountain trails. FireRed The longer and bigger its tusks, the higher its rank in its herd. The tusks take a long time to grow. LeafGreen It has sharp, hard tusks and a rugged hide. Its TACKLE is strong enough to knock down a house. Emerald A DONPHAN is so strong it can easily haul a dump truck. Its hide has toughened to a rock-hard state. An ordinary sort of attack won’t even leave a scratch. Diamond Pearl Platinum It attacks by curling up, then rolling into its foe. It can blow apart a house in one hit. HeartGold It has sharp, hard tusks and a rugged hide. Its tackle is strong enough to knock down a house. SoulSilver The longer and bigger its tusks, the higher its rank in its herd. The tusks take long to grow. Black White It attacks by curling up, then rolling into its foe. It can blow apart a house in one hit. Black 2 White 2 It attacks by curling up then rolling into its foe. It can blow apart a house in one hit. X It has sharp, hard tusks and a rugged hide. Its Tackle is strong enough to knock down a house. Y The longer and bigger its tusks, the higher its rank in its herd. The tusks take long to grow. Omega Ruby Donphan’s favorite attack is curling its body into a ball, then charging at its foe while rolling at high speed. Once it starts rolling, this Pokémon can’t stop very easily. Alpha Sapphire If Donphan were to tackle with its hard body, even a house could be destroyed. Using its massive strength, the Pokémon helps clear rock and mud slides that block mountain trails. 
Porygon2	233	Generation 2	Normal 			Virtual Pokemon		 Download Trace Analytic  		2′0″ (0.61m) 		71.7 lbs (32.5 kg) 		First stage
Gold This upgraded version of PORYGON is designed for space exploration. It can't fly, though. Silver Further research enhanced its abilities. Sometimes, it may exhibit motions that were not programmed. Crystal This manmade POKéMON evolved from the latest technology. It may have unprogrammed reactions. Ruby Sapphire PORYGON2 was created by humans using the power of science. The man-made POKéMON has been endowed with artificial intelligence that enables it to learn new gestures and emotions on its own. FireRed Further research enhanced its abilities. Sometimes, it may exhibit motions that were not programmed. LeafGreen This upgraded version of PORYGON is designed for space exploration. However, it can’t even fly. Emerald It was created by humans using the power of science. It has been given artificial intelligence that enables it to learn new gestures and emotions on its own. Diamond Pearl With planetary development software installed, it became capable of working in space. Platinum It was upgraded to enable the exploration of other planets. However, it failed to measure up. HeartGold This upgraded version of PORYGON is designed for space exploration. It can’t fly, however. SoulSilver Further research enhanced its abilities. Sometimes, it may exhibit motions that were not programmed. Black White Black 2 White 2 It was upgraded to enable the exploration of other planets. However, it failed to measure up. X Further research enhanced its abilities. Sometimes, it may exhibit motions that were not programmed. Y With planetary development software installed, it became capable of working in space. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Porygon2 was created by humans using the power of science. The man-made Pokémon has been endowed with artificial intelligence that enables it to learn new gestures and emotions on its own. Sun For the purposes of planetary development, Porygon was updated with the most cutting-edge technology available. Moon Porygon was updated to a new version in readiness for planetary development. But that dream remains unrealized as yet. 
Stantler	234	Generation 2	Normal 			Big Horn Pokemon	 Frisk Intimidate Sap Sipper  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		157 lbs (71.2 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Smeargle	235	Generation 2	Normal 			Painter Pokemon		 Own Tempo Technician Moody  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		127.9 lbs (58.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Tyrogue		236	Generation 2	Fighting 		Scuffle Pokemon		 Guts Steadfast Vital Spirit  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		46.3 lbs (21.0 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It is always bursting with energy. To make itself stronger, it keeps on fighting even if it loses. Silver Even though it is small, it can't be ignored because it will slug any handy target without warning. Crystal To brush up on its fighting skills, it will challenge anyone. It has a very strong competitive spirit. Ruby Sapphire TYROGUE becomes stressed out if it does not get to train every day. When raising this POKéMON, the TRAINER must establish and uphold various training methods. FireRed Even though it is small, it can’t be ignored because it will slug any handy target without warning. LeafGreen It is always bursting with energy. To make itself stronger, it keeps on fighting even if it loses. Emerald TYROGUE become stressed out if they do not get to train every day. When raising this POKéMON, the TRAINER must establish a regular training schedule. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is famous for its eagerness to fight and always nurses injuries from challenging larger foes. HeartGold It is always bursting with energy. To make itself stronger, it keeps on fighting even if it loses. SoulSilver Even though it is small, it can’t be ignored because it will slug any handy target without warning. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is famous for its eagerness to fight and always nurses injuries from challenging larger foes. X It is always bursting with energy. To make itself stronger, it keeps on fighting even if it loses. Y To brush up on its fighting skills, it will challenge anyone. It has a very strong competitive spirit. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Tyrogue becomes stressed out if it does not get to train every day. When raising this Pokémon, the Trainer must establish and uphold various training methods. 
Hitmontop	237	Generation 2	Fighting 		Handstand Pokemon	 Intimidate Technician Steadfast  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		105.8 lbs (48.0 kg) 		First stage
Gold If you become enchanted by its smooth, elegant, dance-like kicks, you may get drilled hard. Silver It launches kicks while spinning. If it spins at high speed, it may bore its way into the ground. Crystal After doing a handstand to throw off the opponent's timing, it presents its fancy kick moves. Ruby Sapphire HITMONTOP spins on its head at high speed, all the while delivering kicks. This technique is a remarkable mix of both offense and defense at the same time. The POKéMON travels faster spinning than it does walking. FireRed It launches kicks while spinning. If it spins at high speed, it may bore its way into the ground. LeafGreen If you become enchanted by its smooth, elegant, dance-like kicks, you may get drilled hard. Emerald Its technique of kicking while spinning is a remarkable mix of both offense and defense. HITMONTOP travel faster spinning than they do walking. Diamond Pearl Platinum It fights while spinning like a top. The centrifugal force boosts its destructive power by ten. HeartGold If you are enchanted by its smooth, dance-like kicks, you may get a closer experience with one than you’d like. SoulSilver It launches kicks while spinning. If it spins at high speed, it may bore its way into the ground. Black White It fights while spinning like a top. The centrifugal force boosts its destructive power by ten. Black 2 White 2 It fights while spinning like a top. The centrifugal force boosts its destructive power by 10. X It fights while spinning like a top. The centrifugal force boosts its destructive power by 10. Y If you are enchanted by its smooth, dance-like kicks, you may get a closer experience with one than you’d like. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Hitmontop spins on its head at high speed, all the while delivering kicks. This technique is a remarkable mix of both offense and defense at the same time. The Pokémon travels faster spinning than it does walking. 
Smoochum	238	Generation 2	Ice Psychic 		Kiss Pokemon		 Forewarn Oblivious Hydration  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		13.2 lbs (6.0 kg) 		Basic form
Gold Its lips are the most sensitive parts on its body. It always uses its lips first to examine things. Silver It always rocks its head slowly backwards and forwards as if it is trying to kiss someone. Crystal The sensitivity of its lips develops most quickly. It uses them to try to identify unknown objects. Ruby Sapphire SMOOCHUM actively runs about, but also falls quite often. Whenever the chance arrives, it will look for its reflection to make sure its face hasn’t become dirty. FireRed It always rocks its head slowly backwards and forwards as if it is trying to kiss someone. LeafGreen Its lips are the most sensitive parts on its body. It always uses its lips first to examine things. Emerald It actively runs about, but also falls often. Whenever it falls, it will check its reflection on a lake’s surface to make sure its face hasn’t become dirty. Diamond Pearl Platinum It tests everything by touching with its lips, which remember what it likes and dislikes. HeartGold Its lips are the most sensitive part of its body. It always uses its lips first to examine things. SoulSilver It always rocks its head slowly backwards and forwards as if it is trying to kiss someone. Black White Black 2 White 2 It tests everything by touching with its lips, which remember what it likes and dislikes. X Its lips are the most sensitive part of its body. It always uses its lips first to examine things. Y It tests everything by touching with its lips, which remember what it likes and dislikes. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Smoochum actively runs about, but also falls quite often. Whenever the chance arrives, it will look for its reflection to make sure its face hasn’t become dirty. 
Elekid		239	Generation 2	Electric 		Electric Pokemon	 Static Vital Spirit  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		51.8 lbs (23.5 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It rotates its arms to generate electricity, but it tires easily, so it charges up only a little bit. Silver Even in the most vicious storm, this POKéMON plays happily if thunder rumbles in the sky. Crystal It loves violent thunder. The space between its horns flickers bluish-white when it is charging energy. Ruby Sapphire ELEKID stores electricity in its body. If it touches metal and accidentally discharges all its built-up electricity, this POKéMON begins swinging its arms in circles to recharge itself. FireRed Even in the most vicious storm, this POKéMON plays happily if thunder rumbles in the sky. LeafGreen It rotates its arms to generate electricity, but it tires easily, so it charges up only a little bit. Emerald If it touches metal and discharges the electricity it has stored in its body, an ELEKID begins swinging its arms in circles to recharge itself. Diamond Pearl It generates electricity by whirling its arms. However, it can’t store the energy it makes. Platinum A weak electric current flows between its horns. Sticking a hand there shocks the unwary. HeartGold It rotates its arms to generate electricity, but it tires easily, so it only charges up a little bit. SoulSilver Even in the most vicious storm, this Pokémon plays happily if thunder rumbles in the sky. Black White A weak electric current flows between its horns. Sticking a hand there shocks the unwary. Black 2 White 2 Spinning its arms around to generate electricity makes the area between its horns shine light blue. X It generates electricity by whirling its arms. However, it can’t store the energy it makes. Y Spinning its arms around to generate electricity makes the area between its horns shine light blue. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Elekid stores electricity in its body. If it touches metal and accidentally discharges all its built-up electricity, this Pokémon begins swinging its arms in circles to recharge itself. Sun When it’s in a house, electrical outlets serve as its baby bottles. It sucks down electricity. Moon This Pokémon is constantly fighting with Togedemaru that try to steal its electricity. It’s a pretty even match. 
Magby		240	Generation 2	Fire 			Live Coal Pokemon	 Flame Body Vital Spirit  		2′4″ (0.71m) 		47.2 lbs (21.4 kg) 		Basic form
Gold Each and every time it inhales and exhales, hot embers dribble out of its mouth and nostrils. Silver It is found in volcanic craters. Its body temp. is over 1100 degrees, so don't underestimate it. Crystal It naturally spits an 1100-degree flame. It is said when many appear, it heralds a volcanic eruption. Ruby Sapphire MAGBY’s state of health is determined by observing the fire it breathes. If the POKéMON is spouting yellow flames from its mouth, it is in good health. When it is fatigued, black smoke will be mixed in with the flames. FireRed It is found in volcanic craters. Its body heat exceeds 1,100 degrees Fahrenheit, so don’t underestimate it. LeafGreen Each and every time it inhales and exhales, hot embers dribble out of its mouth and nostrils. Emerald If a MAGBY is spouting yellow flames from its mouth, it is in good health. When it is fatigued, black smoke will be mixed in with the flames. Diamond Pearl Its body temperature is around 1,100 degrees F. It is healthy if it is breathing yellow flames. Platinum Its magma-like blood circulates throughout its body. Its body’s heat can top 1,100 degrees F. HeartGold Each and every time it inhales and exhales, hot embers dribble from its mouth and nostrils. SoulSilver It is found in volcanic craters. Its body temperature is over 1,100 degrees Fahrenheit, so don’t underestimate it. Black White Its magma-like blood circulates throughout its body. Its body’s heat can top 1,100 degrees F. Black 2 White 2 It’s small, but its body temperature is over 1,100 degrees F. Embers escape its mouth and nose when it breathes. X It’s small, but its body temperature is over 1,100 degrees Fahrenheit. Embers escape its mouth and nose when it breathes. Y Its magma-like blood circulates throughout its body. Its body’s heat can top 1,100 degrees Fahrenheit. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Magby’s state of health is determined by observing the fire it breathes. If the Pokémon is spouting yellow flames from its mouth, it is in good health. When it is fatigued, black smoke will be mixed in with the flames. Sun Many of these Pokémon can be seen in areas with volcanic activity. Feeding can get them so excited, they exhale flames of 1,100 degrees F. Moon A famous potter lives with a Magby. Apparently its soft flames produce fine works. 
Miltank		241	Generation 2	Normal 			Milk Cow Pokemon	 Scrappy Thick Fat Sap Sipper  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		166.4 lbs (75.5 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Blissey		242	Generation 2	Normal 			Happiness Pokemon	 Natural Cure Serene Grace Healer  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		103.2 lbs (46.8 kg) 		Second stage
Gold Anyone who takes even one bite of BLISSEY's egg becomes unfailingly caring and pleasant to everyone. Silver It has a very compassionate nature. If it sees a sick POKéMON, it will nurse the sufferer back to health. Crystal Biting into one of the delicious eggs that BLISSEY provides will make everyone around smile with joy. Ruby Sapphire BLISSEY senses sadness with its fluffy coat of fur. If it does so, this POKéMON will rush over to the sad person, however far they may be, to share an egg of happiness that brings a smile to any face. FireRed It has a very compassionate nature. If it sees a sick POKéMON, it will nurse the sufferer back to health. LeafGreen Anyone who takes even one bite of BLISSEY’s egg becomes unfailingly caring and pleasant to everyone. Emerald If it senses sadness with its fluffy fur, a BLISSEY will rush over to the sad person, however far away, to share an egg of happiness that brings a smile to any face. Diamond This kindhearted Pokémon nurses sick Pokémon to health. It senses feelings of sadness. Pearl It is a Pokémon that delivers happiness. Eating its egg is said to make one kind to everyone. Platinum The eggs it lays are filled with happiness. Eating even one bite will bring a smile to anyone. HeartGold Anyone who takes even one taste of BLISSEY’s egg becomes unfailingly caring and pleasant to everyone. SoulSilver It has a very compassionate nature. If it sees a sick Pokémon, it will nurse the sufferer back to health. Black White Black 2 White 2 The eggs it lays are filled with happiness. Eating even one bite will bring a smile to anyone. X The eggs it lays are filled with happiness. Eating even one bite will bring a smile to anyone. Y This kindhearted Pokémon nurses sick Pokémon to health. It senses feelings of sadness. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Blissey senses sadness with its fluffy coat of fur. If it does so, this Pokémon will rush over to a sad person, no matter how far away, to share a Lucky Egg that brings a smile to any face. Sun Even the most ferocious Pokémon become calm when they eat Blissey’s egg, which is said to be filled with happiness. Moon Its fluffy fur coat acts as a sensor, enabling it to read the feelings of people and Pokémon. 
Raikou		243	Generation 2	Electric 		Thunder Pokemon		 Pressure Inner Focus  			6′3″ (1.91m) 		392.4 lbs (178.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Entei		244	Generation 2	Fire 			Volcano Pokemon		 Pressure Inner Focus  			6′11″ (2.11m) 		436.5 lbs (198.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Suicune		245	Generation 2	Water 			Aurora Pokemon		 Pressure Inner Focus  			6′7″ (2.01m) 		412.3 lbs (187.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Larvitar	246	Generation 2	Rock Ground 		Rock Skin Pokemon	 Guts Sand Veil  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		158.7 lbs (72.0 kg) 		Basic form
Gold It feeds on soil. After it has eaten a large mountain, it will fall asleep so it can grow. Silver It is born deep underground. It can't emerge until it has entirely consumed the soil around it. Crystal Born deep underground, this POKéMON becomes a pupa after eating enough dirt to make a mountain. Ruby Sapphire LARVITAR is born deep under the ground. To come up to the surface, this POKéMON must eat its way through the soil above. Until it does so, LARVITAR cannot see its parent’s face. FireRed It is born deep underground. It can’t emerge until it has entirely consumed the soil around it. LeafGreen It feeds on soil. After it has eaten a large mountain, it will fall asleep so it can grow. Emerald A LARVITAR is born deep under the ground. It must eat its way through the soil above and reach the surface for it to see its parents’ faces. Diamond Pearl Platinum A Pokémon that eats soil. Once it has eaten a large mountain, it goes to sleep so it can grow. HeartGold It feeds on soil. After it has eaten a large mountain, it falls asleep so it can grow. SoulSilver It is born deep underground. It can’t emerge until it has entirely consumed the soil around it. Black White A Pokémon that eats soil. Once it has eaten a large mountain, it goes to sleep so it can grow. Black 2 White 2 Born deep underground, it comes aboveground and becomes a pupa once it has finished eating the surrounding soil. X It feeds on soil. After it has eaten a large mountain, it falls asleep so it can grow. Y Born deep underground, it comes aboveground and becomes a pupa once it has finished eating the surrounding soil. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Larvitar is born deep under the ground. To come up to the surface, this Pokémon must eat its way through the soil above. Until it does so, Larvitar cannot see its parents. 
Pupitar		247	Generation 2	Rock Ground 		Hard Shell Pokemon	 Shed Skin 				3′11″ (1.19m) 		335.1 lbs (152.0 kg) 		First stage
Gold Its shell is as hard as sheet rock, and it is also very strong. Its THRASHING can topple a mountain. Silver Even sealed in its shell, it can move freely. Hard and fast, it has outstanding destructive power. Crystal It will not stay still, even while it's a pupa. It already has arms and legs under its solid shell. Ruby Sapphire PUPITAR creates a gas inside its body that it compresses and forcefully ejects to propel itself like a jet. The body is very durable - it avoids damage even if it hits solid steel. FireRed Even sealed in its shell, it can move freely. Hard and fast, it has outstanding destructive power. LeafGreen Its shell is as hard as sheet rock, and it is also very strong. Its THRASHING can topple a mountain. Emerald A PUPITAR creates a gas inside its body that it ejects under compression to propel itself like a jet. Its body can withstand a collision with solid steel. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its body is as hard as bedrock. By venting pressurized gas, it can launch itself like a rocket. HeartGold Its shell is as hard as sheet rock, and it is also very strong. Its thrashing can topple a mountain. SoulSilver Even sealed in its shell, it can move freely. Hard and fast, it has outstanding destructive power. Black White Its body is as hard as bedrock. By venting pressurized gas, it can launch itself like a rocket. Black 2 White 2 This pupa flies around wildly by venting with great force the gas pressurized inside its body. X Its body is as hard as bedrock. By venting pressurized gas, it can launch itself like a rocket. Y Its shell is as hard as sheet rock, and it is also very strong. Its thrashing can topple a mountain. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Pupitar creates a gas inside its body that it compresses and forcefully ejects to propel itself like a jet. The body is very durable—it avoids damage even if it hits solid steel. 
Tyranitar	248	Generation 2	Rock Dark 		Armor Pokemon		 Sand Stream Unnerve  			6′7″ (2.01m) 		445.3 lbs (202.0 kg) 		Second stage
Gold Its body can't be harmed by any sort of attack, so it is very eager to make challenges against enemies. Silver Extremely strong, it can change the landscape. It has an insolent nature that makes it not care about others. Crystal In just one of its mighty hands, it has the power to make the ground shake and mountains crumble. Ruby Sapphire TYRANITAR is so overwhelmingly powerful, it can bring down a whole mountain to make its nest. This POKéMON wanders about in mountains seeking new opponents to fight. FireRed LeafGreen Its body can’t be harmed by any sort of attack, so it is very eager to make challenges against enemies. Emerald A TYRANITAR is so overwhelmingly powerful, it can bring down a whole mountain to make its nest. It roams in mountains seeking new opponents to fight. Diamond Pearl Platinum If it rampages, it knocks down mountains and buries rivers. Maps must be redrawn afterward. HeartGold Its body can’t be harmed by any sort of attack, so it is very eager to make challenges against enemies. SoulSilver Extremely strong, it can change the landscape. It has an insolent nature that makes it not care about others. Black White If it rampages, it knocks down mountains and buries rivers. Maps must be redrawn afterward. Black 2 White 2 The quakes caused when it walks make even great mountains crumble and change the surrounding terrain. X In just one of its mighty hands, it has the power to make the ground shake and mountains crumble. Y If it rampages, it knocks down mountains and buries rivers. Maps must be redrawn afterward. Omega Ruby Alpha Sapphire Tyranitar is so overwhelmingly powerful, it can bring down a whole mountain to make its nest. This Pokémon wanders about in mountains seeking new opponents to fight. 
Lugia		249	Generation 2	Psychic Flying 		Diving Pokemon		 Pressure Multiscale  			17′1″ (5.21m) 		476.2 lbs (216.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Ho-oh		250	Generation 2	Fire Flying 		Rainbow Pokemon		 Pressure Regenerator  			12′6″ (3.81m) 		438.7 lbs (199.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Celebi		251	Generation 2	Psychic Grass 		Time Travel Pokemon	 Natural Cure 				2′0″ (0.61m) 		11 lbs (5.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Treecko		252	Generation 3	Grass 			Wood Gecko Pokemon	 Overgrow Unburden  			1′8″ (0.51m) 		11 lbs (5.0 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby TREECKO has small hooks on the bottom of its feet that enable it to scale vertical walls. This POKéMON attacks by slamming foes with its thick tail. Sapphire TREECKO is cool, calm, and collected - it never panics under any situation. If a bigger foe were to glare at this POKéMON, it would glare right back without conceding an inch of ground. FireRed LeafGreen It quickly scales even vertical walls. It senses humidity with its tail to predict the next day’s weather. Emerald It makes its nest in a giant tree in the forest. It ferociously guards against anything nearing its territory. It is said to be the protector of the forest’s trees. Diamond Pearl Platinum The soles of its feet are covered by countless tiny spikes, enabling it to walk on walls and ceilings. HeartGold SoulSilver Small hooks on the bottom of its feet catch on walls and ceilings. That is how it can hang from above. Black White Black 2 White 2 The soles of its feet are covered by countless tiny spikes, enabling it to walk on walls and ceilings. X It quickly scales even vertical walls. It senses humidity with its tail to predict the next day’s weather. Y Small hooks on the bottom of its feet catch on walls and ceilings. That is how it can hang from above. Omega Ruby Treecko has small hooks on the bottom of its feet that enable it to scale vertical walls. This Pokémon attacks by slamming foes with its thick tail. Alpha Sapphire Treecko is cool, calm, and collected—it never panics under any situation. If a bigger foe were to glare at this Pokémon, it would glare right back without conceding an inch of ground. 
Grovyle		253	Generation 3	Grass 			Wood Gecko Pokemon	 Overgrow Unburden  			2′11″ (0.89m) 		47.6 lbs (21.6 kg) 		First stage
Ruby The leaves growing out of GROVYLE’s body are convenient for camouflaging it from enemies in the forest. This POKéMON is a master at climbing trees in jungles. Sapphire This POKéMON adeptly flies from branch to branch in trees. In a forest, no POKéMON can ever hope to catch a fleeing GROVYLE however fast they may be. FireRed LeafGreen Its strongly developed thigh muscles give it astounding agility and jumping performance. Emerald Leaves grow out of this POKéMON’s body. They help obscure a GROVYLE from the eyes of its enemies while it is in a thickly overgrown forest. Diamond Pearl Platinum It lives in dense jungles. While closing in on its prey, it leaps from branch to branch. HeartGold SoulSilver It leaps from tree branch to tree branch quite swiftly. It shows astounding agility. Black White It lives in dense jungles. While closing in on its prey, it leaps from branch to branch. Black 2 White 2 It lives in dense jungles. While closing in on its prey, it leaps from branch to branch. X Its strongly developed thigh muscles give it astounding agility and jumping performance. Y It lives in dense jungles. While closing in on its prey, it leaps from branch to branch. Omega Ruby The leaves growing out of Grovyle’s body are convenient for camouflaging it from enemies in the forest. This Pokémon is a master at climbing trees in jungles. Alpha Sapphire This Pokémon adeptly flies from branch to branch in trees. In a forest, no Pokémon can ever hope to catch a fleeing Grovyle however fast they may be. 
Sceptile	254	Generation 3	Grass 			Forest Pokemon		 Overgrow Unburden  			5′7″ (1.70m) 		115.1 lbs (52.2 kg) 		Second stage
Ruby The leaves growing on SCEPTILE’s body are very sharp edged. This POKéMON is very agile - it leaps all over the branches of trees and jumps on its foe from above or behind. Sapphire SCEPTILE has seeds growing on its back. They are said to be bursting with nutrients that revitalize trees. This POKéMON raises the trees in a forest with loving care. FireRed LeafGreen The leaves on its forelegs are as sharp as swords. It agilely leaps about the branches of trees to strike. Emerald In the jungle, its power is without equal. This POKéMON carefully grows trees and plants. It regulates its body temperature by basking in sunlight. Diamond Pearl Platinum The leaves that grow on its arms can slice down thick trees. It is without peer in jungle combat. HeartGold SoulSilver It agilely leaps about the jungle and uses the sharp leaves on its arms to strike its prey. Black White Black 2 White 2 The leaves that grow on its arms can slice down thick trees. It is without peer in jungle combat. X The leaves that grow on its arms can slice down thick trees. It is without peer in jungle combat. Y It agilely leaps about the jungle and uses the sharp leaves on its arms to strike its prey. Omega Ruby The leaves growing on Sceptile’s body are very sharp edged. This Pokémon is very agile—it leaps all over the branches of trees and jumps on its foe from above or behind. Alpha Sapphire Sceptile has seeds growing on its back. They are said to be bursting with nutrients that revitalize trees. This Pokémon raises the trees in a forest with loving care. 
Torchic		255	Generation 3	Fire 			Chick Pokemon		 Blaze Speed Boost  			1′4″ (0.41m) 		5.5 lbs (2.5 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby TORCHIC sticks with its TRAINER, following behind with unsteady steps. This POKéMON breathes fire of over 1,800 degrees F, including fireballs that leave the foe scorched black. Sapphire TORCHIC has a place inside its body where it keeps its flame. Give it a hug - it will be glowing with warmth. This POKéMON is covered all over by a fluffy coat of down. FireRed LeafGreen It has a flame sac inside its belly that perpetually burns. It feels warm if it is hugged. Emerald If attacked, it strikes back by spitting balls of fire it forms in its stomach. A TORCHIC dislikes darkness because it can’t see its surroundings. Diamond Pearl Platinum A fire burns inside, so it feels very warm to hug. It launches fireballs of 1,800 degrees F. HeartGold SoulSilver Inside its body is a place where it keeps a small flame. Hug it! It will be as warm as a hot-water bottle. Black White Black 2 White 2 A fire burns inside, so it feels very warm to hug. It launches fireballs of 1,800 degrees F. X It has a flame sac inside its belly that perpetually burns. It feels warm if it is hugged. Y A fire burns inside, so it feels very warm to hug. It launches fireballs of 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit. Omega Ruby Torchic sticks with its Trainer, following behind with unsteady steps. This Pokémon breathes fire of over 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit, including fireballs that leave the foe scorched black. Alpha Sapphire Torchic has a place inside its body where it keeps its flame. Give it a hug—it will be glowing with warmth. This Pokémon is covered all over by a fluffy coat of down. 
Combusken	256	Generation 3	Fire Fighting 		Young Fowl Pokemon	 Blaze Speed Boost  			2′11″ (0.89m) 		43 lbs (19.5 kg) 		First stage
Ruby COMBUSKEN toughens up its legs and thighs by running through fields and mountains. This POKéMON’s legs possess both speed and power, enabling it to dole out ten kicks in one second. Sapphire COMBUSKEN battles with the intensely hot flames it spews from its beak and with outstandingly destructive kicks. This POKéMON’s cry is very loud and distracting. FireRed LeafGreen It boosts its concentration by emitting harsh cries. Its kicks have outstanding destructive power. Emerald It lashes out with 10 kicks per second. Its strong fighting instinct compels it to keep up its offensive until the opponent gives up. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its kicking mastery lets it loose 10 kicks per second. It emits sharp cries to intimidate foes. HeartGold SoulSilver During a battle, the hot flame in its body increases. Its kicks have outstanding destructive power. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its kicking mastery lets it loose 10 kicks per second. It emits sharp cries to intimidate foes. X Its kicking mastery lets it loose 10 kicks per second. It emits sharp cries to intimidate foes. Y During a battle, the hot flame in its body increases. Its kicks have outstanding destructive power. Omega Ruby Combusken toughens up its legs and thighs by running through fields and mountains. This Pokémon’s legs possess both speed and power, enabling it to dole out 10 kicks in one second. Alpha Sapphire Combusken battles with the intensely hot flames it spews from its beak and with outstandingly destructive kicks. This Pokémon’s cry is very loud and distracting. 
Blaziken	257	Generation 3	Fire Fighting 		Blaze Pokemon		 Blaze Speed Boost  			6′3″ (1.91m) 		114.6 lbs (52.0 kg) 		Second stage
Ruby In battle, BLAZIKEN blows out intense flames from its wrists and attacks foes courageously. The stronger the foe, the more intensely this POKéMON’s wrists burn. Sapphire BLAZIKEN has incredibly strong legs - it can easily clear a 30-story building in one leap. This POKéMON’s blazing punches leave its foes scorched and blackened. FireRed LeafGreen When facing a tough foe, it looses flames from its wrists. Its powerful legs let it jump clear over buildings. Emerald It learns martial arts that use punches and kicks. Every several years, its old feathers burn off, and new, supple feathers grow back in their place. Diamond Pearl Platinum Flames spout from its wrists, enveloping its knuckles. Its punches scorch its foes. HeartGold SoulSilver It can clear a 30-story building in a leap. Its fiery punches scorch its foes. Black White Black 2 White 2 Flames spout from its wrists, enveloping its knuckles. Its punches scorch its foes. X It can clear a 30-story building in a leap. Its fiery punches scorch its foes. Y When facing a tough foe, it looses flames from its wrists. Its powerful legs let it jump clear over buildings. Omega Ruby In battle, Blaziken blows out intense flames from its wrists and attacks foes courageously. The stronger the foe, the more intensely this Pokémon’s wrists burn. Alpha Sapphire Blaziken has incredibly strong legs—it can easily clear a 30-story building in one leap. This Pokémon’s blazing punches leave its foes scorched and blackened. 
Mudkip		258	Generation 3	Water 			Mud Fish Pokemon	 Torrent Damp  				1′4″ (0.41m) 		16.8 lbs (7.6 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby The fin on MUDKIP’s head acts as highly sensitive radar. Using this fin to sense movements of water and air, this POKéMON can determine what is taking place around it without using its eyes. Sapphire In water, MUDKIP breathes using the gills on its cheeks. If it is faced with a tight situation in battle, this POKéMON will unleash its amazing power - it can crush rocks bigger than itself. FireRed LeafGreen Its large tail fin propels it through water with powerful acceleration. It is strong in spite of its size. Emerald On land, it can powerfully lift large boulders by planting its four feet and heaving. It sleeps by burying itself in soil at the water’s edge. Diamond Pearl Platinum To alert it, the fin on its head senses the flow of water. It has the strength to heft boulders. HeartGold SoulSilver Its power can crush boulders. It rests by covering itself with mud at the bottom of a river. Black White Black 2 White 2 To alert it, the fin on its head senses the flow of water. It has the strength to heft boulders. X Its large tail fin propels it through water with powerful acceleration. It is strong in spite of its size. Y To alert it, the fin on its head senses the flow of water. It has the strength to heft boulders. Omega Ruby The fin on Mudkip’s head acts as highly sensitive radar. Using this fin to sense movements of water and air, this Pokémon can determine what is taking place around it without using its eyes. Alpha Sapphire In water, Mudkip breathes using the gills on its cheeks. If it is faced with a tight situation in battle, this Pokémon will unleash its amazing power—it can crush rocks bigger than itself. 
Marshtomp	259	Generation 3	Water Ground 		Mud Fish Pokemon	 Torrent Damp  				2′4″ (0.71m) 		61.7 lbs (28.0 kg) 		First stage
Ruby The surface of MARSHTOMP’s body is enveloped by a thin, sticky film that enables it to live on land. This POKéMON plays in mud on beaches when the ocean tide is low. Sapphire MARSHTOMP is much faster at traveling through mud than it is at swimming. This POKéMON’s hindquarters exhibit obvious development, giving it the ability to walk on just its hind legs. FireRed LeafGreen It is at its best when on muddy ground with poor footing. It quickly overwhelms foes struggling in mud. Emerald Its toughened hind legs enable it to stand upright. Because it weakens if its skin dries out, it replenishes fluids by playing in mud. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its sturdy legs give it sure footing, even in mud. It burrows into dirt to sleep. HeartGold SoulSilver Living on muddy ground that provides poor footing has made its legs sturdy. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its sturdy legs give it sure footing, even in mud. It burrows into dirt to sleep. X Its sturdy legs give it sure footing, even in mud. It burrows into dirt to sleep. Y Living on muddy ground that provides poor footing has made its legs sturdy. Omega Ruby The surface of Marshtomp’s body is enveloped by a thin, sticky film that enables it to live on land. This Pokémon plays in mud on beaches when the ocean tide is low. Alpha Sapphire Marshtomp is much faster at traveling through mud than it is at swimming. This Pokémon’s hindquarters exhibit obvious development, giving it the ability to walk on just its hind legs. 
Swampert	260	Generation 3	Water Ground 		Mud Fish Pokemon	 Torrent Damp  				4′11″ (1.50m) 		180.6 lbs (81.9 kg) 		Second stage
Ruby SWAMPERT is very strong. It has enough power to easily drag a boulder weighing more than a ton. This POKéMON also has powerful vision that lets it see even in murky water. Sapphire SWAMPERT predicts storms by sensing subtle differences in the sounds of waves and tidal winds with its fins. If a storm is approaching, it piles up boulders to protect itself. FireRed LeafGreen Its arms are rock-hard. With one swing, they can batter down its foe. It makes its nest on beautiful beaches. Emerald If it senses the approach of a storm and a tidal wave, it protects its seaside nest by piling up boulders. It swims as fast as a jet ski. Diamond Pearl Platinum It can swim while towing a large ship. It bashes down foes with a swing of its thick arms. HeartGold SoulSilver Its arms are hard as rock. With one swing, it can break a boulder into pieces. Black White Black 2 White 2 It can swim while towing a large ship. It bashes down foes with a swing of its thick arms. X Its arms are hard as rock. With one swing, it can break a boulder into pieces. Y It can swim while towing a large ship. It bashes down foes with a swing of its thick arms. Omega Ruby Swampert is very strong. It has enough power to easily drag a boulder weighing more than a ton. This Pokémon also has powerful vision that lets it see even in murky water. Alpha Sapphire Swampert predicts storms by sensing subtle differences in the sounds of waves and tidal winds with its fins. If a storm is approaching, it piles up boulders to protect itself. 
Poochyena	261	Generation 3	Dark 			Bite Pokemon		 Quick Feet Run Away Rattled  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		30 lbs (13.6 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby At first sight, POOCHYENA takes a bite at anything that moves. This POKéMON chases after prey until the victim becomes exhausted. However, it may turn tail if the prey strikes back. Sapphire POOCHYENA is an omnivore - it will eat anything. A distinguishing feature is how large its fangs are compared to its body. This POKéMON tries to intimidate its foes by making the hair on its tail bristle out. FireRed LeafGreen It has a very tenacious nature. Its acute sense of smell lets it chase a chosen prey without ever losing track. Emerald It savagely threatens foes with bared fangs. It chases after fleeing targets tenaciously. It turns tail and runs, however, if the foe strikes back. Diamond Pearl Platinum A Pokémon with a persistent nature, it chases its chosen prey until the prey becomes exhausted. HeartGold SoulSilver It chases its prey until the victim becomes exhausted. However, it turns tail if the prey strikes back. Black White Black 2 White 2 A Pokémon with a persistent nature, it chases its chosen prey until the prey becomes exhausted. X A Pokémon with a persistent nature, it chases its chosen prey until the prey becomes exhausted. Y It has a very tenacious nature. Its acute sense of smell lets it chase a chosen prey without ever losing track. Omega Ruby At first sight, Poochyena takes a bite at anything that moves. This Pokémon chases after prey until the victim becomes exhausted. However, it may turn tail if the prey strikes back. Alpha Sapphire Poochyena is an omnivore—it will eat anything. A distinguishing feature is how large its fangs are compared to its body. This Pokémon tries to intimidate its foes by making the hair on its tail bristle out. 
Mightyena	262	Generation 3	Dark 			Bite Pokemon		 Intimidate Quick Feet Moxie  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		81.6 lbs (37.0 kg) 		First stage
Ruby MIGHTYENA gives obvious signals when it is preparing to attack. It starts to growl deeply and then flattens its body. This POKéMON will bite savagely with its sharply pointed fangs. Sapphire MIGHTYENA travel and act as a pack in the wild. The memory of its life in the wild compels the POKéMON to obey only those TRAINERS that it recognizes to possess superior skill. FireRed LeafGreen It will always obey the commands of a skilled TRAINER. Its behavior arises from its living in packs in ancient times. Emerald In the wild, MIGHTYENA live in a pack. They never defy their leader’s orders. They defeat foes with perfectly coordinated teamwork. Diamond Pearl Platinum It chases down prey in a pack. It will never disobey the commands of a skilled Trainer. HeartGold SoulSilver It chases down prey in a pack of around ten. They defeat foes with perfectly coordinated teamwork. Black White Black 2 White 2 It chases down prey in a pack. It will never disobey the commands of a skilled Trainer. X It will always obey the commands of a skilled Trainer. Its behavior arises from its living in packs in ancient times. Y It chases down prey in a pack of around ten. They defeat foes with perfectly coordinated teamwork. Omega Ruby Mightyena gives obvious signals when it is preparing to attack. It starts to growl deeply and then flattens its body. This Pokémon will bite savagely with its sharply pointed fangs. Alpha Sapphire Mightyena travel and act as a pack in the wild. The memory of its life in the wild compels the Pokémon to obey only those Trainers that it recognizes to possess superior skill. 
Zigzagoon	263	Generation 3	Normal 			TinyRaccoon Pokemon	 Gluttony Pickup Quick Feet  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		38.6 lbs (17.5 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby ZIGZAGOON restlessly wanders everywhere at all times. This POKéMON does so because it is very curious. It becomes interested in anything that it happens to see. Sapphire The hair on ZIGZAGOON’s back is bristly. It rubs the hard back hair against trees to leave its territorial markings. This POKéMON may play dead to fool foes in battle. FireRed LeafGreen A POKéMON with abundant curiosity. It shows an interest in everything, so it always zigs and zags. Emerald Rubbing its nose against the ground, it always wanders about back and forth in search of something. It is distinguished by the zigzag footprints it leaves. Diamond Pearl Platinum It walks in zigzag fashion. It is good at finding items in the grass and even in the ground. HeartGold SoulSilver It gets interested in everything, which is why it zigs and zags. It is good at finding items. Black White Black 2 White 2 It walks in zigzag fashion. It is good at finding items in the grass and even in the ground. X It walks in zigzag fashion. It’s good at finding items in the grass and even in the ground. Y A Pokémon with abundant curiosity. It shows an interest in everything, so it always zigzags. Omega Ruby Zigzagoon restlessly wanders everywhere at all times. This Pokémon does so because it is very curious. It becomes interested in anything that it happens to see. Alpha Sapphire The hair on Zigzagoon’s back is bristly. It rubs the hard back hair against trees to leave its territorial markings. This Pokémon may play dead to fool foes in battle. 
Linoone		264	Generation 3	Normal 			Rushing Pokemon		 Gluttony Pickup Quick Feet  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		71.7 lbs (32.5 kg) 		First stage
Ruby LINOONE always runs full speed and only in straight lines. If facing an obstacle, it makes a right-angle turn to evade it. This POKéMON is very challenged by gently curving roads. Sapphire When hunting, LINOONE will make a beeline straight for the prey at a full run. While this POKéMON is capable of topping 60 mph, it has to come to a screeching halt before it can turn. FireRed LeafGreen When running in a straight line, it can top 60 miles per hour. However, it has a tough time with curved roads. Emerald It is exceedingly fast if it only has to run in a straight line. When it spots pond-dwelling prey underwater, it quickly leaps in and catches it with its sharp claws. Diamond Pearl Platinum It charges prey at speeds over 60 mph. However, because it can only run straight, it often fails. HeartGold SoulSilver When running in a straight line, it can easily top 60 miles an hour. It has a tough time with curved roads. Black White Black 2 White 2 It charges prey at speeds over 60 mph. However, because it can only run straight, it often fails. X When running in a straight line, it can easily top 60 miles an hour. It has a tough time with curved roads. Y It charges prey at speeds over 60 mph. However, because it can only run straight, it often fails. Omega Ruby Linoone always runs full speed and only in straight lines. If facing an obstacle, it makes a right-angle turn to evade it. This Pokémon is very challenged by gently curving roads. Alpha Sapphire When hunting, Linoone will make a beeline straight for the prey at a full run. While this Pokémon is capable of topping 60 mph, it has to come to a screeching halt before it can turn. 
Wurmple		265	Generation 3	Bug 			Worm Pokemon		 Shield Dust Run Away  			1′0″ (0.30m) 		7.9 lbs (3.6 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby Using the spikes on its rear end, WURMPLE peels the bark off trees and feeds on the sap that oozes out. This POKéMON’s feet are tipped with suction pads that allow it to cling to glass without slipping. Sapphire WURMPLE is targeted by SWELLOW as prey. This POKéMON will try to resist by pointing the spikes on its rear at the attacking predator. It will weaken the foe by leaking poison from the spikes. FireRed LeafGreen It lives amidst tall grass and in forests. When attacked, it resists by pointing its venomous spikes at the foe. Emerald It sticks to tree branches and eats leaves. The thread it spits from its mouth, which becomes gooey when it touches air, slows the movement of its foes. Diamond It loves to eat leaves. If it is attacked by a STARLY, it will defend itself with its spiked rear. Pearl It spits a white silk that turns sticky when it contacts air. It is used to immobilize foes. Platinum Often targeted by bird Pokémon, it desperately resists by releasing poison from its tail spikes. HeartGold SoulSilver It lives among the tall grass and in forests. It repels attacks by raising up the spikes on its rear. Black White Black 2 White 2 Often targeted by bird Pokémon, it desperately resists by releasing poison from its tail spikes. X It loves to eat leaves. If it is attacked by a Starly, it will defend itself with its spiked rear. Y It lives among the tall grass and in forests. It repels attacks by raising up the spikes on its rear. Omega Ruby Using the spikes on its rear end, Wurmple peels the bark off trees and feeds on the sap that oozes out. This Pokémon’s feet are tipped with suction pads that allow it to cling to glass without slipping. Alpha Sapphire Wurmple is targeted by Swellow as prey. This Pokémon will try to resist by pointing the spikes on its rear at the attacking predator. It will weaken the foe by leaking poison from the spikes. 
Silcoon		266	Generation 3	Bug 			Cocoon Pokemon		 Shed Skin 				2′0″ (0.61m) 		22 lbs (10.0 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby SILCOON tethers itself to a tree branch using silk to keep from falling. There, this POKéMON hangs quietly while it awaits evolution. It peers out of the silk cocoon through a small hole. Sapphire SILCOON was thought to endure hunger and not consume anything before its evolution. However, it is now thought that this POKéMON slakes its thirst by drinking rainwater that collects on its silk. FireRed LeafGreen It conserves its energy by moving as little as possible. It awaits evolution while drinking only a little rainwater. Emerald It prepares for evolution using the energy it stored while it was a WURMPLE. It keeps watch over the surroundings with its two eyes. Diamond It anchors itself by wrapping twigs with the silk from its body. It motionlessly awaits evolution. Pearl It drinks dew that collects on its silk and waits for evolution. Its hard cocoon repels attacks. Platinum It wraps silk around the branches of a tree. It drinks rainwater on its silk while awaiting evolution. HeartGold SoulSilver Having wrapped silk around the branches of a tree, it quiescently awaits evolution. Black White Black 2 White 2 It wraps silk around the branches of a tree. It drinks rainwater on its silk while awaiting evolution. X It wraps silk around the branches of a tree. It drinks rainwater on its silk while awaiting evolution. Y It drinks dew that collects on its silk and waits for evolution. Its hard cocoon repels attacks. Omega Ruby Silcoon tethers itself to a tree branch using silk to keep from falling. There, this Pokémon hangs quietly while it awaits evolution. It peers out of the silk cocoon through a small hole. Alpha Sapphire Silcoon was thought to endure hunger and not consume anything before its evolution. However, it is now thought that this Pokémon slakes its thirst by drinking rainwater that collects on its silk. 
Beautifly	267	Generation 3	Bug Flying 		Butterfly Pokemon	 Swarm Rivalry  				3′3″ (0.99m) 		62.6 lbs (28.4 kg) 		First stage
Ruby BEAUTIFLY’s favorite food is the sweet pollen of flowers. If you want to see this POKéMON, just leave a potted flower by an open window. BEAUTIFLY is sure to come looking for pollen. Sapphire BEAUTIFLY has a long mouth like a coiled needle, which is very convenient for collecting pollen from flowers. This POKéMON rides the spring winds as it flits around gathering pollen. FireRed LeafGreen Despite its appearance, it has an aggressive nature. It attacks by jabbing with its long, thin mouth. Emerald Its colorfully patterned wings are its most prominent feature. It flies through flower-covered fields collecting pollen. It attacks ferociously when angered. Diamond It has an aggressive nature. It stabs prey with its long, narrow mouth to drain the prey’s fluids. Pearl When flower fields bloom, it flits around, collecting pollen. Despite its appearance, it is savage. Platinum Despite its looks, it is aggressive. It jabs with its long, thin mouth if disturbed while collecting pollen. HeartGold SoulSilver Vibrantly patterned wings are its prominent feature. It sucks sweet flower nectar with its long mouth. Black White Black 2 White 2 Despite its looks, it is aggressive. It jabs with its long, thin mouth if disturbed while collecting pollen. X Vibrantly patterned wings are its prominent feature. It sucks sweet flower nectar with its long mouth. Y It has an aggressive nature. It stabs prey with its long, narrow mouth to drain the prey’s fluids. Omega Ruby Beautifly’s favorite food is the sweet pollen of flowers. If you want to see this Pokémon, just leave a potted flower by an open window. Beautifly is sure to come looking for pollen. Alpha Sapphire Beautifly has a long mouth like a coiled needle, which is very convenient for collecting pollen from flowers. This Pokémon rides the spring winds as it flits around gathering pollen. 
Cascoon		268	Generation 3	Bug 			Cocoon Pokemon		 Shed Skin 				2′4″ (0.71m) 		25.4 lbs (11.5 kg) 		First stage
Ruby CASCOON makes its protective cocoon by wrapping its body entirely with a fine silk from its mouth. Once the silk goes around its body, it hardens. This POKéMON prepares for its evolution inside the cocoon. Sapphire If it is attacked, CASCOON remains motionless however badly it may be hurt. It does so because if it were to move, its body would be weak upon evolution. This POKéMON will also not forget the pain it endured. FireRed LeafGreen Its body, which is made of soft silk, hardens over time. When cracks appear, evolution is near. Emerald To avoid detection by its enemies, it hides motionlessly beneath large leaves and in the gaps of branches. It also attaches dead leaves to its body for camouflage. Diamond It is hot inside its cocoon. All the cells in its body create the energy for it to evolve. Pearl Encased within its tough cocoon, it endures attacks. It never forgets the appearance of its foes. Platinum It never forgets any attack it endured while in the cocoon. After evolution, it seeks payback. HeartGold SoulSilver It endures attacks with patience, because the more pain before evolution, the sturdier it becomes. Black White Black 2 White 2 It never forgets any attack it endured while in the cocoon. After evolution, it seeks payback. X Its body, which is made of soft silk, hardens over time. When cracks appear, evolution is near. Y It never forgets any attack it endured while in the cocoon. After evolution, it seeks payback. Omega Ruby Cascoon makes its protective cocoon by wrapping its body entirely with a fine silk from its mouth. Once the silk goes around its body, it hardens. This Pokémon prepares for its evolution inside the cocoon. Alpha Sapphire If it is attacked, Cascoon remains motionless however badly it may be hurt. It does so because if it were to move, its body would be weak upon evolution. This Pokémon will also not forget the pain it endured. 
Dustox		269	Generation 3	Bug Poison 		Poison Moth Pokemon	 Shield Dust Compound Eyes  		3′11″ (1.19m) 		69.7 lbs (31.6 kg) 		Second stage
Ruby DUSTOX is instinctively drawn to light. Swarms of this POKéMON are attracted by the bright lights of cities, where they wreak havoc by stripping the leaves off roadside trees for food. Sapphire When DUSTOX flaps its wings, a fine dust is scattered all over. This dust is actually a powerful poison that will even make a pro wrestler sick. This POKéMON searches for food using its antennae like radar. FireRed LeafGreen It scatters horribly toxic dust when it senses danger. They tend to gather in the glow of streetlamps at night. Emerald It is a nocturnal POKéMON that flies from fields and mountains to the attraction of streetlights at night. It looses highly toxic powder from its wings. Diamond A nocturnal Pokémon. Drawn by streetlights, they messily eat the leaves of trees lining boulevards. Pearl It violently flutters its wings to scatter toxic dust when attacked. It becomes active after sunset. Platinum Toxic powder is scattered with each flap. At night, it is known to strip leaves off trees lining boulevards. HeartGold SoulSilver It scatters its fine dust all over when it is attacked. It is a nocturnal Pokémon. Black White Black 2 White 2 Toxic powder is scattered with each flap. At night, it is known to strip leaves off trees lining boulevards. X A nocturnal Pokémon. Drawn by streetlights, they messily eat the leaves of trees lining boulevards. Y It violently flutters its wings to scatter toxic dust when attacked. It becomes active after sunset. Omega Ruby Dustox is instinctively drawn to light. Swarms of this Pokémon are attracted by the bright lights of cities, where they wreak havoc by stripping the leaves off roadside trees for food. Alpha Sapphire When Dustox flaps its wings, a fine dust is scattered all over. This dust is actually a powerful poison that will even make a pro wrestler sick. This Pokémon searches for food using its antennae like radar. 
Lotad		270	Generation 3	Water Grass 		Water Weed Pokemon	 Rain Dish Swift Swim Own Tempo  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		5.7 lbs (2.6 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby LOTAD live in ponds and lakes, where they float on the surface. It grows weak if its broad leaf dies. On rare occasions, this POKéMON travels on land in search of clean water. Sapphire LOTAD is said to have dwelled on land before. However, this POKéMON is thought to have returned to water because the leaf on its head grew large and heavy. It now lives by floating atop the water. FireRed LeafGreen It searches about for clean water. If it does not drink water for too long, the leaf on its head wilts. Emerald This POKéMON lives in ponds with clean water. It is known to ferry small POKéMON across ponds by carrying them on the broad leaf on its head. Diamond Pearl Platinum It looks like an aquatic plant and serves as a ferry to Pokémon that can’t swim. HeartGold SoulSilver Its leaf grew too large for it to live on land. That is how it began to live floating in the water. Black White Black 2 White 2 It looks like an aquatic plant and serves as a ferry to Pokémon that can’t swim. X It looks like an aquatic plant and serves as a ferry to Pokémon that can’t swim. Y It searches about for clean water. If it does not drink water for too long, the leaf on its head wilts. Omega Ruby Lotad live in ponds and lakes, where they float on the surface. It grows weak if its broad leaf dies. On rare occasions, this Pokémon travels on land in search of clean water. Alpha Sapphire Lotad is said to have dwelled on land before. However, this Pokémon is thought to have returned to water because the leaf on its head grew large and heavy. It now lives by floating atop the water. 
Lombre		271	Generation 3	Water Grass 		Jolly Pokemon		 Rain Dish Swift Swim Own Tempo  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		71.7 lbs (32.5 kg) 		First stage
Ruby LOMBRE is nocturnal - it will get active after dusk. It is also a mischief-maker. When this POKéMON spots anglers, it tugs on their fishing lines from beneath the surface and enjoys their consternation. Sapphire LOMBRE’s entire body is covered by a slippery, slimy film. It feels horribly unpleasant to be touched by this POKéMON’s hands. LOMBRE is often mistaken for a human child. FireRed LeafGreen It lives at the water’s edge where it is sunny. It sleeps on a bed of water grass by day and becomes active at night. Emerald In the evening, it takes great delight in popping out of rivers and startling people. It feeds on aquatic moss that grows on rocks in the riverbed. Diamond Pearl Platinum It has a mischievous spirit. If it spots an angler, it will tug on the fishing line to interfere. HeartGold SoulSilver It is nocturnal and becomes active at nightfall. It feeds on aquatic mosses that grow in the riverbed. Black White Black 2 White 2 It has a mischievous spirit. If it spots an angler, it will tug on the fishing line to interfere. X It lives at the water’s edge where it is sunny. It sleeps on a bed of water-grass by day and becomes active at night. Y It has a mischievous spirit. If it spots an angler, it will tug on the fishing line to interfere. Omega Ruby Lombre is nocturnal—it will get active after dusk. It is also a mischief maker. When this Pokémon spots anglers, it tugs on their fishing lines from beneath the surface and enjoys their consternation. Alpha Sapphire Lombre’s entire body is covered by a slippery, slimy film. It feels horribly unpleasant to be touched by this Pokémon’s hands. Lombre is often mistaken for a human child. 
Ludicolo	272	Generation 3	Water Grass 		Carefree Pokemon	 Rain Dish Swift Swim Own Tempo  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		121.3 lbs (55.0 kg) 		Second stage
Ruby LUDICOLO begins dancing as soon as it hears cheerful, festive music. This POKéMON is said to appear when it hears the singing of children on hiking outings. Sapphire Upon hearing an upbeat and cheerful rhythm, the cells in LUDICOLO’s body become very energetic and active. Even in battle, this POKéMON will exhibit an amazing amount of power. FireRed LeafGreen The rhythm of bright, festive music activates LUDICOLO’s cells, making it more powerful. Emerald When it hears festive music, all the cells in its body become stimulated, and it begins moving in rhythm. It does not quail even when it faces a tough opponent. Diamond Pearl Platinum If it hears festive music, all its muscles fill with energy. It can’t help breaking out into a dance. HeartGold SoulSilver If it hears festive music, it begins moving in rhythm in order to amplify its power. Black White Black 2 White 2 If it hears festive music, all its muscles fill with energy. It can’t help breaking out into a dance. X If it hears festive music, all its muscles fill with energy. It can’t help breaking out into a dance. Y The rhythm of bright, festive music activates Ludicolo’s cells, making it more powerful. Omega Ruby Ludicolo begins dancing as soon as it hears cheerful, festive music. This Pokémon is said to appear when it hears the singing of children on hiking outings. Alpha Sapphire Upon hearing an upbeat and cheerful rhythm, the cells in Ludicolo’s body become very energetic and active. Even in battle, this Pokémon will exhibit an amazing amount of power. 
Seedot		273	Generation 3	Grass 			Acorn Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Early Bird Pickpocket  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		8.8 lbs (4.0 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby SEEDOT attaches itself to a tree branch using the top of its head. It sucks moisture from the tree while hanging off the branch. The more water it drinks, the glossier this POKéMON’s body becomes. Sapphire SEEDOT looks exactly like an acorn when it is dangling from a tree branch. It startles other POKéMON by suddenly moving. This POKéMON polishes its body once a day using leaves. FireRed LeafGreen If it remains still, it becomes impossible to distinguish from real nuts. It delights in surprising foraging PIDGEY. Emerald It hangs off branches and absorbs nutrients. When it finishes eating, its body becomes so heavy that it drops to the ground with a thump. Diamond Pearl Platinum When it dangles from a tree branch, it looks just like an acorn. It enjoys scaring other Pokémon. HeartGold SoulSilver It attaches itself to a tree branch using the top of its head. Strong winds can sometimes make it fall. Black White Black 2 White 2 When it dangles from a tree branch, it looks just like an acorn. It enjoys scaring other Pokémon. X It attaches itself to a tree branch using the top of its head. Strong winds can sometimes make it fall. Y When it dangles from a tree branch, it looks just like an acorn. It enjoys scaring other Pokémon. Omega Ruby Seedot attaches itself to a tree branch using the top of its head. It sucks moisture from the tree while hanging off the branch. The more water it drinks, the glossier this Pokémon’s body becomes. Alpha Sapphire Seedot looks exactly like an acorn when it is dangling from a tree branch. It startles other Pokémon by suddenly moving. This Pokémon polishes its body once a day using leaves. 
Nuzleaf		274	Generation 3	Grass Dark 		Wily Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Early Bird Pickpocket  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		61.7 lbs (28.0 kg) 		First stage
Ruby NUZLEAF live in densely overgrown forests. They occasionally venture out of the forest to startle people. This POKéMON dislikes having its long nose pinched. Sapphire This POKéMON pulls out the leaf on its head and makes a flute with it. The sound of NUZLEAF’s flute strikes fear and uncertainty in the hearts of people lost in a forest. FireRed LeafGreen They live in holes bored in large trees. The sound of NUZLEAF’s grass flute fills listeners with dread. Emerald A forest-dwelling POKéMON that is skilled at climbing trees. Its long and pointed nose is its weak point. It loses power if the nose is gripped. Diamond Pearl Platinum The sound of its grass flute makes its listeners uneasy. It lives deep in forests. HeartGold SoulSilver It lives deep in forests. With the leaf on its head, it makes a flute whose song makes listeners uneasy. Black White Black 2 White 2 The sound of its grass flute makes its listeners uneasy. It lives deep in forests. X The sound of its grass flute makes its listeners uneasy. It lives deep in forests. Y It lives deep in forests. With the leaf on its head, it makes a flute whose song makes listeners uneasy. Omega Ruby Nuzleaf live in densely overgrown forests. They occasionally venture out of the forest to startle people. This Pokémon dislikes having its long nose pinched. Alpha Sapphire This Pokémon pulls out the leaf on its head and makes a flute with it. The sound of Nuzleaf’s flute strikes fear and uncertainty in the hearts of people lost in a forest. 
Shiftry		275	Generation 3	Grass Dark 		Wicked Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Early Bird Pickpocket  	4′3″ (1.30m) 		131.4 lbs (59.6 kg) 		Second stage
Ruby SHIFTRY is a mysterious POKéMON that is said to live atop towering trees dating back over a thousand years. It creates terrific windstorms with the fans it holds. Sapphire SHIFTRY’s large fans generate awesome gusts of wind at a speed close to 100 feet per second. The whipped-up wind blows anything away. This POKéMON chooses to live quietly deep in forests. FireRed LeafGreen A POKéMON that was feared as a forest guardian. It can read the foe’s mind and take preemptive action. Emerald It is said to arrive on chilly, wintry winds. Feared from long ago as the guardian of forests, this POKéMON lives in a deep forest where people do not venture. Diamond Pearl Platinum By flapping its leafy fan, it can whip up gusts of 100 ft/second that can level houses. HeartGold SoulSilver It lives quietly in the deep forest. It is said to create chilly winter winds with the fans it holds. Black White Black 2 White 2 By flapping its leafy fan, it can whip up gusts of 100 ft/second that can level houses. X A Pokémon that was feared as a forest guardian. It can read the foe’s mind and take preemptive action. Y By flapping its leafy fan, it can whip up gusts of 100 feet per second that can level houses. Omega Ruby Shiftry is a mysterious Pokémon that is said to live atop towering trees dating back over a thousand years. It creates terrific windstorms with the fans it holds. Alpha Sapphire Shiftry’s large fans generate awesome gusts of wind at a speed close to 100 feet per second. The whipped-up wind blows anything away. This Pokémon chooses to live quietly deep in forests. 
Taillow		276	Generation 3	Normal Flying 		TinySwallow Pokemon	 Guts Scrappy  				1′0″ (0.30m) 		5.1 lbs (2.3 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby TAILLOW courageously stands its ground against foes, however strong they may be. This gutsy POKéMON will remain defiant even after a loss. On the other hand, it cries loudly if it becomes hungry. Sapphire TAILLOW is young - it has only just left its nest. As a result, it sometimes becomes lonesome and cries at night. This POKéMON feeds on WURMPLE that live in forests. FireRed LeafGreen It dislikes cold seasons. They migrate to other lands in search of warmth, flying over 180 miles a day. Emerald Although it is small, it is very courageous. It will take on a larger SKARMORY on an equal footing. However, its will weakens if it becomes hungry. Diamond Pearl Platinum It has a gutsy spirit that makes it bravely take on tough foes. It flies in search of warm climates. HeartGold SoulSilver When it gets cold, they migrate, flying over 180 miles a day. It hunts for tasty prey. Black White Black 2 White 2 It has a gutsy spirit that makes it bravely take on tough foes. It flies in search of warm climates. X It has a gutsy spirit that makes it bravely take on tough foes. It flies in search of warm climates. Y It dislikes cold seasons. They migrate to other lands in search of warmth, flying over 180 miles a day. Omega Ruby Taillow courageously stands its ground against foes, however strong they may be. This gutsy Pokémon will remain defiant even after a loss. On the other hand, it cries loudly if it becomes hungry. Alpha Sapphire Taillow is young—it has only just left its nest. As a result, it sometimes becomes lonesome and cries at night. This Pokémon feeds on Wurmple that live in forests. 
Swellow		277	Generation 3	Normal Flying 		Swallow Pokemon		 Guts Scrappy  				2′4″ (0.71m) 		43.7 lbs (19.8 kg) 		First stage
Ruby SWELLOW flies high above our heads, making graceful arcs in the sky. This POKéMON dives at a steep angle as soon as it spots its prey. The hapless prey is tightly grasped by SWELLOW’s clawed feet, preventing escape. Sapphire SWELLOW is very conscientious about the upkeep of its glossy wings. Once two SWELLOW are gathered, they diligently take care of cleaning each other’s wings. FireRed LeafGreen If its two tail feathers are standing at attention, it is proof of good health. It soars elegantly in the sky. Emerald A SWELLOW dives upon prey from far above. It never misses its targets. It takes to the skies in search of lands with a warm climate. Diamond Pearl Platinum It circles the sky in search of prey. When it spots one, it dives steeply to catch the prey. HeartGold SoulSilver It dives at a steep angle as soon as it spots its prey. It catches its prey with sharp claws. Black White Black 2 White 2 It circles the sky in search of prey. When it spots one, it dives steeply to catch the prey. X If its two tail feathers are standing at attention, it is proof of good health. It soars elegantly in the sky. Y It dives at a steep angle as soon as it spots its prey. It catches its prey with sharp claws. Omega Ruby Swellow flies high above our heads, making graceful arcs in the sky. This Pokémon dives at a steep angle as soon as it spots its prey. The hapless prey is tightly grasped by Swellow’s clawed feet, preventing escape. Alpha Sapphire Swellow is very conscientious about the upkeep of its glossy wings. Once two Swellow are gathered, they diligently take care of cleaning each other’s wings. 
Wingull		278	Generation 3	Water Flying 		Seagull Pokemon		 Hydration Keen Eye Rain Dish  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		20.9 lbs (9.5 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby WINGULL has the habit of carrying prey and valuables in its beak and hiding them in all sorts of locations. This POKéMON rides the winds and flies as if it were skating across the sky. Sapphire WINGULL rides updrafts rising from the sea by extending its long and narrow wings to glide. This POKéMON’s long beak is useful for catching prey. FireRed LeafGreen It rides upon ocean winds as if it were a glider. In the winter, it hides food around its nest. Emerald It makes its nest on a sheer cliff at the edge of the sea. It has trouble keeping its wings flapping in flight. Instead, it soars on updrafts. Diamond It makes its nest on steep sea cliffs. Riding updrafts, it soars to great heights. Pearl Catching sea winds with its long wings, it soars as if it were a glider. It folds its wings to rest. Platinum It soars high in the sky, riding on updrafts like a glider. It carries food tucked in its bill. HeartGold SoulSilver It soars on updrafts without flapping its wings. It makes a nest on sheer cliffs at the sea’s edge. Black White It soars high in the sky, riding on updrafts like a glider. It carries food tucked in its bill. Black 2 White 2 It makes its nest on sheer cliffs. Riding the sea breeze, it glides up into the expansive skies. X Catching sea winds with its long wings, it soars as if it were a glider. It folds its wings to rest. Y It makes its nest on steep sea cliffs. Riding updrafts, it soars to great heights. Omega Ruby Wingull has the habit of carrying prey and valuables in its beak and hiding them in all sorts of locations. This Pokémon rides the winds and flies as if it were skating across the sky. Alpha Sapphire Wingull rides updrafts rising from the sea by extending its long and narrow wings to glide. This Pokémon’s long beak is useful for catching prey. Sun Its hollow bones enhance its lightness. It spreads its wings to the wind and soars away into the sky. Moon Fishermen keep an eye out for Wingull in the sky, because wherever they’re circling, the ocean is sure to be teeming with fish Pokémon. 
Pelipper	279	Generation 3	Water Flying 		Water Bird Pokemon	 Drizzle Keen Eye Rain Dish  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		61.7 lbs (28.0 kg) 		First stage
Ruby PELIPPER is a flying transporter that carries small POKéMON and eggs inside its massive bill. This POKéMON builds its nest on steep cliffs facing the sea. Sapphire PELIPPER searches for food while in flight by skimming the wave tops. This POKéMON dips its large bill in the sea to scoop up food, then swallows everything in one big gulp. FireRed LeafGreen It is a flying transporter that carries small POKéMON in its beak. It bobs on the waves to rest its wings. Emerald It skims the tops of waves as it flies. When it spots prey, it uses its large beak to scoop up the victim with water. It protects its eggs in its beak. Diamond It dips its large bill in the sea, then scoops up numerous prey along with water. Pearl It acts as a delivery service by carrying small Pokémon in its bill. It bobs on the waves to rest. Platinum It is a messenger of the skies, carrying small Pokémon and eggs to safety in its bill. HeartGold SoulSilver It protects its young in its beak. It bobs on waves, resting on them on days when the waters are calm. Black White It is a messenger of the skies, carrying small Pokémon and eggs to safety in its bill. Black 2 White 2 Skimming the water’s surface, it dips its large bill in the sea, scoops up food and water, and carries it. X It dips its large bill in the sea, then scoops up numerous prey along with water. Y It is a messenger of the skies, carrying small Pokémon and eggs to safety in its bill. Omega Ruby Pelipper is a flying transporter that carries small Pokémon and eggs inside its massive bill. This Pokémon builds its nest on steep cliffs facing the sea. Alpha Sapphire Pelipper searches for food while in flight by skimming the wave tops. This Pokémon dips its large bill in the sea to scoop up food, then swallows everything in one big gulp. Sun Its spacious beak is large enough for a small child to fit right inside. Moon Gathering food is the work of young males. They store food in their capacious beaks and carry it back to others waiting in the nest. 
Ralts		280	Generation 3	Psychic Fairy 		Feeling Pokemon		 Synchronize Trace Telepathy  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		14.6 lbs (6.6 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby RALTS senses the emotions of people using the horns on its head. This POKéMON rarely appears before people. But when it does, it draws closer if it senses that the person has a positive disposition. Sapphire RALTS has the ability to sense the emotions of people. If its TRAINER is in a cheerful mood, this POKéMON grows cheerful and joyous in the same way. FireRed LeafGreen It is highly attuned to the emotions of people and POKéMON. It hides if it senses hostility. Emerald A RALTS has the power to sense the emotions of people and POKéMON with the horns on its head. It takes cover if it senses any hostility. Diamond Pearl It uses the horns on its head to sense human emotions. It is said to appear in front of cheerful people. Platinum If its horns capture the warm feelings of people or Pokémon, its body warms up slightly. HeartGold SoulSilver The horns on its head provide a strong power that enables it to sense people’s emotions. Black White Black 2 White 2 If its horns capture the warm feelings of people or Pokémon, its body warms up slightly. X If its horns capture the warm feelings of people or Pokémon, its body warms up slightly. Y It is highly attuned to the emotions of people and Pokémon. It hides if it senses hostility. Omega Ruby Ralts senses the emotions of people using the horns on its head. This Pokémon rarely appears before people. But when it does, it draws closer if it senses that the person has a positive disposition. Alpha Sapphire Ralts has the ability to sense the emotions of people. If its Trainer is in a cheerful mood, this Pokémon grows cheerful and joyous in the same way. 
Kirlia		281	Generation 3	Psychic Fairy 		Emotion Pokemon		 Synchronize Trace Telepathy  	2′7″ (0.79m) 		44.5 lbs (20.2 kg) 		First stage
Ruby It is said that a KIRLIA that is exposed to the positive emotions of its TRAINER grows beautiful. This POKéMON controls psychokinetic powers with its highly developed brain. Sapphire KIRLIA uses the horns on its head to amplify its psychokinetic power. When the POKéMON uses its power, the air around it becomes distorted, creating mirages of nonexistent scenery. FireRed LeafGreen The cheerful spirit of its TRAINER gives it energy for its psychokinetic power. It spins and dances when happy. Emerald A KIRLIA has the psychic power to create a rip in the dimensions and see into the future. It is said to dance with pleasure on sunny mornings. Diamond Pearl It is highly perceptive of its Trainer’s feelings. It dances when it is feeling happy. Platinum If its Trainer becomes happy, it overflows with energy, dancing joyously while spinning about. HeartGold SoulSilver It has a psychic power that enables it to distort the space around it and see into the future. Black White Black 2 White 2 If its Trainer becomes happy, it overflows with energy, dancing joyously while spinning about. X The cheerful spirit of its Trainer gives it energy for its psychokinetic power. It spins and dances when happy. Y It has a psychic power that enables it to distort the space around it and see into the future. Omega Ruby It is said that a Kirlia that is exposed to the positive emotions of its Trainer grows beautiful. This Pokémon controls psychokinetic powers with its highly developed brain. Alpha Sapphire Kirlia uses the horns on its head to amplify its psychokinetic power. When the Pokémon uses its power, the air around it becomes distorted, creating mirages of nonexistent scenery. 
Gardevoir	282	Generation 3	Psychic Fairy 		Embrace Pokemon		 Synchronize Trace Telepathy  	5′3″ (1.60m) 		106.7 lbs (48.4 kg) 		First stage
Ruby GARDEVOIR has the ability to read the future. If it senses impending danger to its TRAINER, this POKéMON is said to unleash its psychokinetic energy at full power. Sapphire GARDEVOIR has the psychokinetic power to distort the dimensions and create a small black hole. This POKéMON will try to protect its TRAINER even at the risk of its own life. FireRed LeafGreen It has the power to predict the future. Its power peaks when it is protecting its TRAINER. Emerald It apparently does not feel the pull of gravity because it supports itself with psychic power. It will give its life to protect its TRAINER. Diamond Pearl It will try to guard its trusted Trainer with its life. It has the ability to see the future. Platinum To protect its Trainer, it will expend all its psychic power to create a small black hole. HeartGold SoulSilver It unleashes psychokinetic energy at full power when protecting a Trainer it has bonded closely with. Black White Black 2 White 2 To protect its Trainer, it will expend all its psychic power to create a small black hole. X To protect its Trainer, it will expend all its psychic power to create a small black hole. Y It has the power to predict the future. Its power peaks when it is protecting its Trainer. Omega Ruby Gardevoir has the ability to read the future. If it senses impending danger to its Trainer, this Pokémon is said to unleash its psychokinetic energy at full power. Alpha Sapphire Gardevoir has the psychokinetic power to distort the dimensions and create a small black hole. This Pokémon will try to protect its Trainer even at the risk of its own life. 
Surskit		283	Generation 3	Bug Water 		Pond Skater Pokemon	 Swift Swim Rain Dish  			1′8″ (0.51m) 		3.7 lbs (1.7 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby From the tips of its feet, SURSKIT secretes an oil that enables it to walk on water as if it were skating. This POKéMON feeds on microscopic organisms in ponds and lakes. Sapphire If SURSKIT senses danger, it secretes a thick, sugary syrup from the tip of its head. There are some POKéMON that love eating this syrup. FireRed LeafGreen They usually live on ponds, but after an evening shower, they may appear on puddles in towns. Emerald They gather on puddles after evening downpours, gliding across the surface of water as if sliding. It secretes honey with a sweet aroma from its head. Diamond Pearl Platinum It appears as if it is skating on water. It draws prey with a sweet scent from the tip of its head. HeartGold SoulSilver It secretes a thick, sweet-scented syrup from the tip of its head. It lives on weed-choked ponds. Black White Black 2 White 2 It appears as if it is skating on water. It draws prey with a sweet scent from the tip of its head. X They usually live on ponds, but after an evening shower, they may appear on puddles in towns. Y It appears as if it is skating on water. It draws prey with a sweet scent from the tip of its head. Omega Ruby From the tips of its feet, Surskit secretes an oil that enables it to walk on water as if it were skating. This Pokémon feeds on microscopic organisms in ponds and lakes. Alpha Sapphire If Surskit senses danger, it secretes a thick, sugary syrup from the tip of its head. There are some Pokémon that love eating this syrup. Sun It moves as if skating on the surface of the water. It often fights with Dewpider over food. Moon When this Pokémon senses danger, a sweet fluid oozes from the tip of its head. The taste of it disgusts bird Pokémon. 
Masquerain	284	Generation 3	Bug Flying 		Eyeball Pokemon		 Intimidate Unnerve  			2′7″ (0.79m) 		7.9 lbs (3.6 kg) 		First stage
Ruby MASQUERAIN intimidates enemies with the eyelike patterns on its antennas. This POKéMON flaps its four wings to freely fly in any direction - even sideways and backwards - as if it were a helicopter. Sapphire MASQUERAIN’s antennas have eyelike patterns that usually give it an angry look. If the “eyes” are droopy and appear sad, it is said to be a sign that a heavy rainfall is on its way. FireRed LeafGreen The antennae have distinctive patterns that look like eyes. When it rains, they grow heavy, making flight impossible. Emerald It intimidates foes with the large eyelike patterns on its antennae. Because it can’t fly if its wings get wet, it shelters itself from rain under large trees and eaves. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its antennae have eye patterns on them. Its four wings enable it to hover and fly in any direction. HeartGold SoulSilver It flaps its four wings to hover and fly freely in any direction--to and fro and sideways. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its antennae have eye patterns on them. Its four wings enable it to hover and fly in any direction. X Its antennae have eye patterns on them. Its four wings enable it to hover and fly in any direction. Y It flaps its four wings to hover and fly freely in any direction--to and fro and sideways. Omega Ruby Masquerain intimidates enemies with the eyelike patterns on its antennas. This Pokémon flaps its four wings to freely fly in any direction—even sideways and backwards—as if it were a helicopter. Alpha Sapphire Masquerain’s antennas have eyelike patterns that usually give it an angry look. If the “eyes” are droopy and appear sad, it is said to be a sign that a heavy rainfall is on its way. Sun It intimidates enemies with the eye-like patterns on its antennae. Its four wings allow it to fly in any direction. Moon Its wings and antennae don’t cope well with moisture. After a rain, it faces sunward to dry off. 
Shroomish	285	Generation 3	Grass 			Mushroom Pokemon	 Effect Spore Poison Heal Quick Feet  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		9.9 lbs (4.5 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby SHROOMISH live in damp soil in the dark depths of forests. They are often found keeping still under fallen leaves. This POKéMON feeds on compost that is made up of fallen, rotted leaves. Sapphire If SHROOMISH senses danger, it shakes its body and scatters spores from the top of its head. This POKéMON’s spores are so toxic, they make trees and weeds wilt. FireRed LeafGreen It prefers damp places. By day it remains still in the forest shade. It releases toxic powder from its head. Emerald It loves to eat damp, composted soil in forests. If you enter a forest after a long rain, you can see many SHROOMISH feasting on composted soil. Diamond Pearl Platinum It spouts poison spores from the top of its head. These spores cause pain all over if inhaled. HeartGold SoulSilver If it senses danger, it scatters spores from the top of its head to protect itself. Black White Black 2 White 2 It spouts poison spores from the top of its head. These spores cause pain all over if inhaled. X It prefers damp places. By day it remains still in the forest shade. It releases toxic powder from its head. Y It spouts poison spores from the top of its head. These spores cause pain all over if inhaled. Omega Ruby Shroomish live in damp soil in the dark depths of forests. They are often found keeping still under fallen leaves. This Pokémon feeds on compost that is made up of fallen, rotted leaves. Alpha Sapphire If Shroomish senses danger, it shakes its body and scatters spores from the top of its head. This Pokémon’s spores are so toxic, they make trees and weeds wilt. 
Breloom		286	Generation 3	Grass Fighting 		Mushroom Pokemon	 Effect Spore Poison Heal Technician  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		86.4 lbs (39.2 kg) 		First stage
Ruby BRELOOM closes in on its foe with light and sprightly footwork, then throws punches with its stretchy arms. This POKéMON’s fighting technique puts boxers to shame. Sapphire The seeds ringing BRELOOM’s tail are made of hardened toxic spores. It is horrible to eat the seeds. Just taking a bite of this POKéMON’s seed will cause your stomach to rumble. FireRed LeafGreen The seeds on its tail are made of toxic spores. It knocks out foes with quick, virtually invisible punches. Emerald It scatters spores from holes in the cap on its head. It loves warm and humid climates. It feeds on trees and plants in fields and forests. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its short arms stretch when it throws punches. Its technique is equal to that of pro boxers. HeartGold SoulSilver It scatters poisonous spores and throws powerful punches while its foe is hampered by inhaled spores. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its short arms stretch when it throws punches. Its technique is equal to that of pro boxers. X Its short arms stretch when it throws punches. Its technique is equal to that of pro boxers. Y It scatters poisonous spores and throws powerful punches while its foe is hampered by inhaled spores. Omega Ruby Breloom closes in on its foe with light and sprightly footwork, then throws punches with its stretchy arms. This Pokémon’s fighting technique puts boxers to shame. Alpha Sapphire The seeds ringing Breloom’s tail are made of hardened toxic spores. It is horrible to eat the seeds. Just taking a bite of this Pokémon’s seed will cause your stomach to rumble. 
Slakoth		287	Generation 3	Normal 			Slacker Pokemon		 Truant 					2′7″ (0.79m) 		52.9 lbs (24.0 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby SLAKOTH lolls around for over twenty hours every day. Because it moves so little, it does not need much food. This POKéMON’s sole daily meal consists of just three leaves. Sapphire SLAKOTH’s heart beats just once a minute. Whatever happens, it is content to loaf around motionless. It is rare to see this POKéMON in motion. FireRed LeafGreen It sleeps for 20 hours every day. Making drowsy those that see it is one of its abilities. Emerald It sleeps virtually all day and night long. It doesn’t change its nest its entire life, but it sometimes travels great distances by swimming in rivers. Diamond Pearl Platinum It spends nearly all its time in a day sprawled out. Just seeing it makes one drowsy. HeartGold SoulSilver The way SLAKOTH lolls around makes anyone who watches it feel like doing the same. Black White It spends nearly all its time in a day sprawled out. Just seeing it makes one drowsy. Black 2 White 2 If it eats just three leaves in a day, it is satisfied. Other than that, it sleeps for 20 hours a day. X The way Slakoth lolls around makes anyone who watches it feel like doing the same. Y If it eats just three leaves in a day, it is satisfied. Other than that, it sleeps for 20 hours a day. Omega Ruby Slakoth lolls around for over 20 hours every day. Because it moves so little, it does not need much food. This Pokémon’s sole daily meal consists of just three leaves. Alpha Sapphire Slakoth’s heart beats just once a minute. Whatever happens, it is content to loaf around motionless. It is rare to see this Pokémon in motion. 
Vigoroth	288	Generation 3	Normal 			Wild Monkey Pokemon	 Vital Spirit 				4′7″ (1.40m) 		102.5 lbs (46.5 kg) 		First stage
Ruby VIGOROTH is always itching and agitated to go on a wild rampage. It simply can’t tolerate sitting still for even a minute. This POKéMON’s stress level rises if it can’t be moving constantly. Sapphire VIGOROTH is simply incapable of remaining still. Even when it tries to sleep, the blood in its veins grows agitated, compelling this POKéMON to run wild throughout the jungle before it can settle down. FireRed LeafGreen It is always hungry because it won’t stop rampaging. Even while it is eating, it can’t keep still. Emerald It can’t keep still because its blood boils with energy. It runs through the fields and mountains all day to calm itself. If it doesn’t, it can’t sleep at night. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its heart beats at a tenfold tempo, so it cannot sit still for even a moment. HeartGold SoulSilver Its stress level rises if it cannot keep moving constantly. Too much stress makes it feel sick. Black White Its heart beats at a tenfold tempo, so it cannot sit still for even a moment. Black 2 White 2 Its heartbeat is fast and its blood so agitated that it can’t sit still for one second. X Its heartbeat is fast and its blood so agitated that it can’t sit still for one second. Y Its stress level rises if it cannot keep moving constantly. Too much stress makes it feel sick. Omega Ruby Vigoroth is always itching and agitated to go on a wild rampage. It simply can’t tolerate sitting still for even a minute. This Pokémon’s stress level rises if it can’t be moving constantly. Alpha Sapphire Vigoroth is simply incapable of remaining still. Even when it tries to sleep, the blood in its veins grows agitated, compelling this Pokémon to run wild throughout the jungle before it can settle down. 
Slaking		289	Generation 3	Normal 			Lazy Pokemon		 Truant 					6′7″ (2.01m) 		287.7 lbs (130.5 kg) 		Second stage
Ruby SLAKING spends all day lying down and lolling about. It eats grass growing within its reach. If it eats all the grass it can reach, this POKéMON reluctantly moves to another spot. Sapphire Wherever SLAKING live, rings of over a yard in diameter appear in grassy fields. They are made by the POKéMON as it eats all the grass within reach while lying prone on the ground. FireRed LeafGreen It is the world’s most slothful POKéMON. However, it can exert horrifying power by releasing pent-up energy all at once. Emerald Hordes of SLAKING gather around trees when fruits come into season. They wait around patiently for ripened fruits to fall out of the trees. Diamond Pearl Platinum The world’s laziest Pokémon. When it is lounging, it is actually saving energy for striking back. HeartGold SoulSilver The world’s laziest Pokémon. It moves to another spot when there’s no food left within its reach. Black White The world’s laziest Pokémon. When it is lounging, it is actually saving energy for striking back. Black 2 White 2 This Pokémon lives lying on its side. It only rolls over and moves when there is no more grass to eat. X The world’s laziest Pokémon. It moves to another spot when there’s no food left within its reach. Y It is the world’s most slothful Pokémon. However, it can exert horrifying power by releasing pent-up energy all at once. Omega Ruby Slaking spends all day lying down and lolling about. It eats grass growing within its reach. If it eats all the grass it can reach, this Pokémon reluctantly moves to another spot. Alpha Sapphire Wherever Slaking live, rings of over a yard in diameter appear in grassy fields. They are made by the Pokémon as it eats all the grass within reach while lying prone on the ground. 
Nincada		290	Generation 3	Bug Ground 		Trainee Pokemon		 Compound Eyes Run Away  		1′8″ (0.51m) 		12.1 lbs (5.5 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby NINCADA lives underground for many years in complete darkness. This POKéMON absorbs nutrients from the roots of trees. It stays motionless as it waits for evolution. Sapphire NINCADA lives underground. It uses its sharp claws to carve the roots of trees and absorb moisture and nutrients. This POKéMON can’t withstand bright sunlight so avoids it. FireRed LeafGreen Because it lived almost entirely underground, it is nearly blind. It uses its antennae instead. Emerald It makes its nest at the roots of a mighty tree. Using its whiskerlike antennae, it probes its surroundings in the pitch-black darkness of soil. Diamond Pearl Platinum It grows underground, sensing its surroundings using antennae instead of its virtually blind eyes. HeartGold SoulSilver It can sometimes live underground for more than 10 years. It absorbs nutrients from the roots of trees. Black White Black 2 White 2 It grows underground, sensing its surroundings using antennae instead of its virtually blind eyes. X Because it lived almost entirely underground, it is nearly blind. It uses its antennae instead. Y It can sometimes live underground for more than 10 years. It absorbs nutrients from the roots of trees. Omega Ruby Nincada lives underground for many years in complete darkness. This Pokémon absorbs nutrients from the roots of trees. It stays motionless as it waits for evolution. Alpha Sapphire Nincada lives underground. It uses its sharp claws to carve the roots of trees and absorb moisture and nutrients. This Pokémon can’t withstand bright sunlight so avoids it. 
Ninjask		291	Generation 3	Bug Flying 		Ninja Pokemon		 Speed Boost Infiltrator  		2′7″ (0.79m) 		26.5 lbs (12.0 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby NINJASK moves around at such a high speed that it cannot be seen, even while its crying can be clearly heard. For that reason, this POKéMON was long believed to be invisible. Sapphire If NINJASK is not trained properly, it will refuse to obey the TRAINER and cry loudly continuously. Because of this quality, this POKéMON is said to be one that puts the TRAINER’s abilities to the test. FireRed LeafGreen This POKéMON is so quick, it is said to be able to avoid any attack. It loves to feed on tree sap. Emerald Because it darts about vigorously at high speed, it is very difficult to see. Hearing its distinctive cries for too long induces a headache. Diamond Pearl Platinum Because it moves so quickly, it sometimes becomes unseeable. It congregates around tree sap. HeartGold SoulSilver Its cry leaves a lasting headache if heard for too long. It moves so quickly that it is almost invisible. Black White Black 2 White 2 Because it moves so quickly, it sometimes becomes unseeable. It congregates around tree sap. X Its cry leaves a lasting headache if heard for too long. It moves so quickly that it is almost invisible. Y Because it moves so quickly, it sometimes becomes unseeable. It congregates around tree sap. Omega Ruby Ninjask moves around at such a high speed that it cannot be seen, even while its crying can be clearly heard. For that reason, this Pokémon was long believed to be invisible. Alpha Sapphire If Ninjask is not trained properly, it will refuse to obey the Trainer and cry loudly continuously. Because of this quality, this Pokémon is said to be one that puts the Trainer’s abilities to the test. 
Shedinja	292	Generation 3	Bug Ghost 		Shed Pokemon		 Wonder Guard 				2′7″ (0.79m) 		2.6 lbs (1.2 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby SHEDINJA’s hard body doesn’t move - not even a twitch. In fact, its body appears to be merely a hollow shell. It is believed that this POKéMON will steal the spirit of anyone peering into its hollow body from its back. Sapphire SHEDINJA is a peculiar POKéMON. It seems to appear unsought in a POKé BALL after a NINCADA evolves. This bizarre POKéMON is entirely immobile - it doesn’t even breathe. FireRed LeafGreen A most peculiar POKéMON that somehow appears in a POKé BALL when a NINCADA evolves. Emerald A peculiar POKéMON that floats in air even though its wings remain completely still. The inside of its body is hollow and utterly dark. Diamond Pearl Platinum A discarded bug shell that came to life. Peering into the crack on its back is said to steal one’s spirit. HeartGold SoulSilver A strange Pokémon--it flies without moving its wings, has a hollow shell for a body, and does not breathe. Black White Black 2 White 2 A discarded bug shell that came to life. Peering into the crack on its back is said to steal one’s spirit. X A discarded bug shell that came to life. Peering into the crack on its back is said to steal one’s spirit. Y A most peculiar Pokémon that somehow appears in a Poké Ball when a Nincada evolves. Omega Ruby Shedinja’s hard body doesn’t move—not even a twitch. In fact, its body appears to be merely a hollow shell. It is believed that this Pokémon will steal the spirit of anyone peering into its hollow body from its back. Alpha Sapphire Shedinja is a peculiar Pokémon. It seems to appear unsought in a Poké Ball after a Nincada evolves. This bizarre Pokémon is entirely immobile—it doesn’t even breathe. 
Whismur		293	Generation 3	Normal 			Whisper Pokemon		 Soundproof Rattled  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		35.9 lbs (16.3 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby Normally, WHISMUR’s voice is very quiet - it is barely audible even if one is paying close attention. However, if this POKéMON senses danger, it starts crying at an earsplitting volume. Sapphire WHISMUR is very timid. If it starts to cry loudly, it becomes startled by its own crying and cries even harder. When it finally stops crying, the POKéMON goes to sleep, all tired out. FireRed LeafGreen It usually murmurs, but starts crying loudly if it senses danger. It stops when its ear covers are shut. Emerald Its cries equal a jet plane in volume. It inhales through its ear canals. Because of this system, it can cry continually without having to catch its breath. Diamond Pearl Platinum Usually, its cries are like quiet murmurs. If frightened, it shrieks at the same volume as a jet plane. HeartGold SoulSilver If it senses danger, it scares the foe by crying out with the volume of a jet-plane engine. Black White Black 2 White 2 Usually, its cries are like quiet murmurs. If frightened, it shrieks at the same volume as a jet plane. X It usually murmurs but starts crying loudly if it senses danger. It stops when its ear covers are shut. Y If it senses danger, it scares the foe by crying out with the volume of a jet-plane engine. Omega Ruby Normally, Whismur’s voice is very quiet—it is barely audible even if one is paying close attention. However, if this Pokémon senses danger, it starts crying at an earsplitting volume. Alpha Sapphire Whismur is very timid. If it starts to cry loudly, it becomes startled by its own crying and cries even harder. When it finally stops crying, the Pokémon goes to sleep, all tired out. 
Loudred		294	Generation 3	Normal 			Big Voice Pokemon	 Soundproof Scrappy  			3′3″ (0.99m) 		89.3 lbs (40.5 kg) 		First stage
Ruby LOUDRED’s bellowing can completely decimate a wood-frame house. It uses its voice to punish its foes. This POKéMON’s round ears serve as loudspeakers. Sapphire LOUDRED shouts while stamping its feet. After it finishes shouting, this POKéMON becomes incapable of hearing anything for a while. This is considered to be a weak point. FireRed LeafGreen When it stamps its feet and bellows, it generates ultrasonic waves that can blow apart a house. Emerald It positions the round speakers on its head to assail foes with ultrasonic waves at massive volume. It builds power by stomping the ground. Diamond Pearl Platinum The shock waves from its cries can tip over trucks. It stamps its feet to power up. HeartGold SoulSilver It shouts loudly by inhaling air, and then uses its well-developed stomach muscles to exhale. Black White Black 2 White 2 The shock waves from its cries can tip over trucks. It stamps its feet to power up. X It shouts loudly by inhaling air, and then uses its well-developed stomach muscles to exhale. Y The shock waves from its cries can tip over trucks. It stamps its feet to power up. Omega Ruby Loudred’s bellowing can completely decimate a wood-frame house. It uses its voice to punish its foes. This Pokémon’s round ears serve as loudspeakers. Alpha Sapphire Loudred shouts while stamping its feet. After it finishes shouting, this Pokémon becomes incapable of hearing anything for a while. This is considered to be a weak point. 
Exploud		295	Generation 3	Normal 			Loud Noise Pokemon	 Soundproof Scrappy  			4′11″ (1.50m) 		185.2 lbs (84.0 kg) 		Second stage
Ruby EXPLOUD triggers earthquakes with the tremors it creates by bellowing. If this POKéMON violently inhales from the ports on its body, it’s a sign that it is preparing to let loose a huge bellow. Sapphire EXPLOUD communicates its feelings to the others by emitting whistle-like sounds from the tubes on its body. This POKéMON only raises its voice when it is in battle. FireRed LeafGreen It emits a variety of sounds from the holes all over its body. Its loud cries can be heard from over six miles away. Emerald It has sound-generating organs all over its body. It communicates with others by adjusting the tone and volume of the cries it emits. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its howls can be heard over six miles away. It emits all sorts of noises from the ports on its body. HeartGold SoulSilver Its roar in battle shakes the ground like a tremor--or like an earthquake has struck. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its howls can be heard over six miles away. It emits all sorts of noises from the ports on its body. X Its howls can be heard over six miles away. It emits all sorts of noises from the ports on its body. Y Its roar in battle shakes the ground like a tremor--or like an earthquake has struck. Omega Ruby Exploud triggers earthquakes with the tremors it creates by bellowing. If this Pokémon violently inhales from the ports on its body, it’s a sign that it is preparing to let loose a huge bellow. Alpha Sapphire Exploud communicates its feelings to the others by emitting whistle-like sounds from the tubes on its body. This Pokémon only raises its voice when it is in battle. 
Makuhita	296	Generation 3	Fighting 		Guts Pokemon		 Guts Thick Fat Sheer Force  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		190.5 lbs (86.4 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby MAKUHITA is tenacious - it will keep getting up and attacking its foe however many times it is knocked down. Every time it gets back up, this POKéMON stores more energy in its body for evolving. Sapphire MAKUHITA has a tireless spirit - it will never give up hope. It eats a lot of food, gets plenty of sleep, and it trains very rigorously. By living that way, this POKéMON packs its body with energy. FireRed LeafGreen It grows stronger by enduring harsh training. It is a gutsy POKéMON that can withstand any attack. Emerald It loves to toughen up its body above all else. If you hear quaking rumbles in a cave, it is the sound of MAKUHITA undertaking strenuous training. Diamond Pearl Platinum It toughens its body by slamming into thick trees. Many snapped trees can be found near its nest. HeartGold SoulSilver It toughens up by slamming into thick trees over and over. It gains a sturdy body and dauntless spirit. Black White Black 2 White 2 It toughens its body by slamming into thick trees. Many snapped trees can be found near its nest. X It toughens up by slamming into thick trees over and over. It gains a sturdy body and dauntless spirit. Y It grows stronger by enduring harsh training. It is a gutsy Pokémon that can withstand any attack. Omega Ruby Makuhita is tenacious—it will keep getting up and attacking its foe however many times it is knocked down. Every time it gets back up, this Pokémon stores more energy in its body for evolving. Alpha Sapphire Makuhita has a tireless spirit—it will never give up hope. It eats a lot of food, gets plenty of sleep, and it trains very rigorously. By living that way, this Pokémon packs its body with energy. Sun It was originally brought in from another region, but now Makuhita from Alola are more famous. Moon Their daily routine consists of training together first thing in the morning, eating and napping in the afternoon, and then more training afterward. 
Hariyama	297	Generation 3	Fighting 		Arm Thrust Pokemon	 Guts Thick Fat Sheer Force  	7′7″ (2.31m) 		559.5 lbs (253.8 kg) 		First stage
Ruby HARIYAMA practices its straight-arm slaps in any number of locations. One hit of this POKéMON’s powerful, openhanded, straight-arm punches could snap a telephone pole in two. Sapphire HARIYAMA’s thick body may appear fat, but it is actually a hunk of solid muscle. If this POKéMON bears down and tightens all its muscles, its body becomes as hard as a rock. FireRed LeafGreen It stomps on the ground to build power. It can send a 10-ton truck flying with a straight-arm punch. Emerald It has the habit of challenging others without hesitation to tests of strength. It’s been known to stand on train tracks and stop trains using forearm thrusts. Diamond Pearl Platinum It loves to match power with big-bodied Pokémon. It can knock a truck flying with its arm thrusts. HeartGold SoulSilver It loves challenging others to tests of strength. It has the power to stop a train with a slap. Black White Black 2 White 2 It loves to match power with big-bodied Pokémon. It can knock a truck flying with its arm thrusts. X It stomps on the ground to build power. It can send a 10-ton truck flying with a straight-arm punch. Y It loves to match power with big-bodied Pokémon. It can knock a truck flying with its arm thrusts. Omega Ruby Hariyama practices its straight-arm slaps in any number of locations. One hit of this Pokémon’s powerful, openhanded, straight-arm punches could snap a telephone pole in two. Alpha Sapphire Hariyama’s thick body may appear fat, but it is actually a hunk of solid muscle. If this Pokémon bears down and tightens all its muscles, its body becomes as hard as a rock. Sun It is known for its fantastic strength, but as it grows older, it focuses more on training Makuhita. Moon They love to compare their freakish strength— strength enough to send a truck flying with a single slap. 
Azurill		298	Generation 3	Normal Fairy 		Polka Dot Pokemon	 Huge Power Thick Fat Sap Sipper  	0′8″ (0.20m) 		4.4 lbs (2.0 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby AZURILL spins its tail as if it were a lasso, then hurls it far. The momentum of the throw sends its body flying, too. Using this unique action, one of these POKéMON managed to hurl itself a record 33 feet. Sapphire AZURILL’s tail is large and bouncy. It is packed full of the nutrients this POKéMON needs to grow. AZURILL can be seen bouncing and playing on its big, rubbery tail. FireRed LeafGreen It battles by flinging around its tail, which is bigger than its body. The tail is a flotation device in water. Emerald Its tail, which is packed with nutrition, is very bouncy like a rubber ball. On sunny days they gather at the edge of water and splash about for fun. Diamond A Pokémon that lives by water. It moves quickly on land by bouncing on its big tail. Pearl Its tail is filled with nutrients necessary for growth. It plays by bouncing on its tail. Platinum Its tail bounces like a rubber ball. It flings that tail around to fight opponents bigger than itself. HeartGold SoulSilver Its tail is packed full of the nutrients it needs to grow. Black White Its tail bounces like a rubber ball. It flings that tail around to fight opponents bigger than itself. Black 2 White 2 It swings its large, nutrient-filled tail around to fight opponents bigger than itself. X A Pokémon that lives by water. It moves quickly on land by bouncing on its big tail. Y It swings its large, nutrient-filled tail around to fight opponents bigger than itself. Omega Ruby Azurill spins its tail as if it were a lasso, then hurls it far. The momentum of the throw sends its body flying, too. Using this unique action, one of these Pokémon managed to hurl itself a record 33 feet. Alpha Sapphire Azurill’s tail is large and bouncy. It is packed full of the nutrients this Pokémon needs to grow. Azurill can be seen bouncing and playing on its big, rubbery tail. 
Nosepass	299	Generation 3	Rock 			Compass Pokemon		 Magnet Pull Sturdy Sand Force  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		213.8 lbs (97.0 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby NOSEPASS’s magnetic nose is always pointed to the north. If two of these POKéMON meet, they cannot turn their faces to each other when they are close because their magnetic noses repel one another. Sapphire NOSEPASS had been said to be completely unmoving, with its magnetic nose pointed due north. However, close observation has revealed that the POKéMON actually moves by a little over 3/8 of an inch every year. FireRed LeafGreen Its magnetic nose consistently faces north. Travelers check NOSEPASS to get their bearings. Emerald Its body emits a powerful magnetism. It feeds on prey that is pulled in by the force. Its magnetism is stronger in cold seasons. Diamond Pearl Its nose is a magnet. As a result, this Pokémon always keeps its face pointing north. Platinum When endangered, it may protect itself by raising its magnetism and drawing iron objects to its body. HeartGold SoulSilver If two of these meet, they cannot get too close because their noses repel each other. Black White When endangered, it may protect itself by raising its magnetism and drawing iron objects to its body. Black 2 White 2 Its magnetic nose always faces north and draws iron objects to its body to protect itself better. X Its magnetic nose always faces north and draws iron objects to its body to protect itself better. Y Its magnetic nose consistently faces north. Travelers check Nosepass to get their bearings. Omega Ruby Nosepass’s magnetic nose is always pointed to the north. If two of these Pokémon meet, they cannot turn their faces to each other when they are close because their magnetic noses repel one another. Alpha Sapphire Nosepass had been said to be completely unmoving, with its magnetic nose pointed due north. However, close observation has revealed that the Pokémon actually moves by a little over 3/8 of an inch every year. Sun The magnet in Nosepass’s nose provides an unerring compass, making it an excellent partner for Trainers going on a journey. Moon It uses powerful magnetism to drag its prey toward it. It’s also been known to pull in metal, which it collects and uses to protect itself. 
Skitty		300	Generation 3	Normal 			Kitten Pokemon		 Cute Charm Normalize Wonder Skin  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		24.3 lbs (11.0 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby SKITTY has the habit of becoming fascinated by moving objects and chasing them around. This POKéMON is known to chase after its own tail and become dizzy. Sapphire SKITTY is known to chase around playfully after its own tail. In the wild, this POKéMON lives in holes in the trees of forests. It is very popular as a pet because of its adorable looks. FireRed LeafGreen It is said to be difficult to earn its trust. However, it is extremely popular for its cute looks and behavior. Emerald A SKITTY’s adorably cute behavior makes it highly popular. In battle, it makes its tail puff out. It threatens foes with a sharp growl. Diamond Pearl Platinum It can’t stop itself from chasing moving things, and it runs in a circle, chasing its own tail. HeartGold SoulSilver It’s adorable when it chases its own tail. It’s difficult to earn its trust. Black White It can’t stop itself from chasing moving things, and it runs in a circle, chasing its own tail. Black 2 White 2 It shows its cute side by chasing its own tail until it gets dizzy. X It can’t stop itself from chasing moving things, and it runs in a circle, chasing its own tail. Y It shows its cute side by chasing its own tail until it gets dizzy. Omega Ruby Skitty has the habit of becoming fascinated by moving objects and chasing them around. This Pokémon is known to chase after its own tail and become dizzy. Alpha Sapphire Skitty is known to chase around playfully after its own tail. In the wild, this Pokémon lives in holes in the trees of forests. It is very popular as a pet because of its adorable looks. 
Delcatty	301	Generation 3	Normal 			Prim Pokemon		 Cute Charm Normalize Wonder Skin  	3′7″ (1.09m) 		71.9 lbs (32.6 kg) 		First stage
Ruby DELCATTY prefers to live an unfettered existence in which it can do as it pleases at its own pace. Because this POKéMON eats and sleeps whenever it decides, its daily routines are completely random. Sapphire DELCATTY sleeps anywhere it wants without keeping a permanent nest. If other POKéMON approach it as it sleeps, this POKéMON will never fight - it will just move away somewhere else. FireRed LeafGreen The favorite of trend-conscious female TRAINERS, they are used in competition for their style and fur. Emerald Rather than keeping a permanent lair, it habitually seeks comfortable spots and sleeps there. It is nocturnal and becomes active at dusk. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is highly popular among female Trainers for its sublime fur. It does not keep a nest. HeartGold SoulSilver It dislikes dirty places. It often searches for a comfortable place in which to groom itself. Black White It is highly popular among female Trainers for its sublime fur. It does not keep a nest. Black 2 White 2 The reason it does not have a nest is that it simply searches for a clean, comfortable place then sleeps there. X It dislikes dirty places. It often searches for a comfortable place in which to groom itself. Y It is highly popular among female Trainers for its sublime fur. It does not keep a nest. Omega Ruby Delcatty prefers to live an unfettered existence in which it can do as it pleases at its own pace. Because this Pokémon eats and sleeps whenever it decides, its daily routines are completely random. Alpha Sapphire Delcatty sleeps anywhere it wants without keeping a permanent nest. If other Pokémon approach it as it sleeps, this Pokémon will never fight—it will just move away somewhere else. 
Sableye		302	Generation 3	Dark Ghost 		Darkness Pokemon	 Keen Eye Stall Prankster  		1′8″ (0.51m) 		24.3 lbs (11.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Mawile		303	Generation 3	Steel Fairy 		Deceiver Pokemon	 Hyper Cutter Intimidate Sheer Force  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		25.4 lbs (11.5 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Aron		304	Generation 3	Steel Rock 		Iron Armor Pokemon	 Rock Head Sturdy Heavy Metal  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		132.3 lbs (60.0 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby This POKéMON has a body of steel. To make its body, ARON feeds on iron ore that it digs from mountains. Occasionally, it causes major trouble by eating bridges and rails. Sapphire ARON has a body of steel. With one all-out charge, this POKéMON can demolish even a heavy dump truck. The destroyed dump truck then becomes a handy meal for the POKéMON. FireRed LeafGreen It eats iron to build its steel body. It is a pest that descends from mountains to eat bridges and train tracks. Emerald A POKéMON that is clad in steel armor. A new suit of armor is made when it evolves. The old, discarded armor is salvaged as metal for making iron products. Diamond Pearl Platinum It usually lives deep in mountains. However, hunger may drive it to eat railroad tracks and cars. HeartGold SoulSilver When it evolves, it sheds the steel carapace that covered its whole body and develops a new one. Black White It usually lives deep in mountains. However, hunger may drive it to eat railroad tracks and cars. Black 2 White 2 In order to build up its steel body, it eats iron ore. This pesky Pokémon is known to eat railroad tracks. X It usually lives deep in mountains. However, hunger may drive it to eat railroad tracks and cars. Y When it evolves, it sheds the steel carapace that covered its whole body and develops a new one. Omega Ruby This Pokémon has a body of steel. To make its body, Aron feeds on iron ore that it digs from mountains. Occasionally, it causes major trouble by eating bridges and rails. Alpha Sapphire Aron has a body of steel. With one all-out charge, this Pokémon can demolish even a heavy dump truck. The destroyed dump truck then becomes a handy meal for the Pokémon. 
Lairon		305	Generation 3	Steel Rock 		Iron Armor Pokemon	 Rock Head Sturdy Heavy Metal  	2′11″ (0.89m) 		264.6 lbs (120.0 kg) 		First stage
Ruby LAIRON tempers its steel body by drinking highly nutritious mineral springwater until it is bloated. This POKéMON makes its nest close to springs of delicious water. Sapphire LAIRON feeds on iron contained in rocks and water. It makes its nest on mountains where iron ore is buried. As a result, the POKéMON often clashes with humans mining the iron ore. FireRed LeafGreen It habitually shows off its strength with the size of sparks it creates by ramming its steel body into boulders. Emerald When two LAIRON meet in the wild, they fight for territory by bashing into each other with their steel bodies. The sound of their collision carries for miles. Diamond Pearl Platinum For food, it digs up iron ore. It smashes its steely body against others to fight over territory. HeartGold SoulSilver It loves iron ore. Groups of them fight for territory by bashing one another with their steel bodies. Black White For food, it digs up iron ore. It smashes its steely body against others to fight over territory. Black 2 White 2 Lairon fight over territory, and when their steel bodies collide, sparks fly. X It loves iron ore. Groups of them fight for territory by bashing one another with their steel bodies. Y It habitually shows off its strength with the size of sparks it creates by ramming its steel body into boulders. Omega Ruby Lairon tempers its steel body by drinking highly nutritious mineral springwater until it is bloated. This Pokémon makes its nest close to springs of delicious water. Alpha Sapphire Lairon feeds on iron contained in rocks and water. It makes its nest on mountains where iron ore is buried. As a result, the Pokémon often clashes with humans mining the iron ore. 
Aggron		306	Generation 3	Steel Rock 		Iron Armor Pokemon	 Rock Head Sturdy Heavy Metal  	6′11″ (2.11m) 		793.7 lbs (360.0 kg) 		Second stage
Ruby AGGRON claims an entire mountain as its own territory. It mercilessly beats up anything that violates its environment. This POKéMON vigilantly patrols its territory at all times. Sapphire AGGRON is surprisingly protective of its environment. If its mountain is ravaged by a landslide or a fire, this POKéMON will haul topsoil to the area, plant trees, and beautifully restore its own territory. FireRed LeafGreen It claims a large mountain as its sole territory. It mercilessly thrashes those that violate its space. Emerald Its iron horns grow longer a little at a time. They are used to determine the AGGRON’s age. The gouges in its armor are worn with pride as mementos from battles. Diamond Pearl Platinum While seeking iron for food, it digs tunnels by breaking through bedrock with its steel horns. HeartGold SoulSilver You can tell its age by the length of its iron horns. It claims an entire mountain as its territory. Black White While seeking iron for food, it digs tunnels by breaking through bedrock with its steel horns. Black 2 White 2 It claims an entire mountain as its own. The more wounds it has, the more it has battled, so don’t take it lightly. X It claims an entire mountain as its own. The more wounds it has, the more it has battled, so don’t take it lightly. Y While seeking iron for food, it digs tunnels by breaking through bedrock with its steel horns. Omega Ruby Aggron claims an entire mountain as its own territory. It mercilessly beats up anything that violates its environment. This Pokémon vigilantly patrols its territory at all times. Alpha Sapphire Aggron is protective of its environment. If its mountain is ravaged by a landslide or a fire, this Pokémon will haul topsoil to the area, plant trees, and beautifully restore its own territory. 
Meditite	307	Generation 3	Fighting Psychic 		Meditate Pokemon	 Pure Power Telepathy  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		24.7 lbs (11.2 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby MEDITITE undertakes rigorous mental training deep in the mountains. However, whenever it meditates, this POKéMON always loses its concentration and focus. As a result, its training never ends. Sapphire MEDITITE heightens its inner energy through meditation. It survives on just one berry a day. Minimal eating is another aspect of this POKéMON’s training. FireRed LeafGreen It never skips its daily yoga training. It heightens its inner strength through meditation. Emerald It continually meditates for hours every day. As a result of rigorous and dedicated yoga training, it has tempered its spiritual power so much it can fly. Diamond It eats just one berry a day. By enduring hunger, its spirit is tempered and made sharper. Pearl It never misses its daily yoga workouts, and it heightens its spiritual power through meditation. Platinum It always trains deep in mountains. It levitates when it heightens its spiritual power through meditation. HeartGold SoulSilver It meditates to heighten its inner energy and to float in the air. It eats one berry a day. Black White Black 2 White 2 It always trains deep in mountains. It levitates when it heightens its spiritual power through meditation. X It always trains deep in mountains. It levitates when it heightens its spiritual power through meditation. Y It eats just one berry a day. By enduring hunger, its spirit is tempered and made sharper. Omega Ruby Meditite undertakes rigorous mental training deep in the mountains. However, whenever it meditates, this Pokémon always loses its concentration and focus. As a result, its training never ends. Alpha Sapphire Meditite heightens its inner energy through meditation. It survives on just one berry a day. Minimal eating is another aspect of this Pokémon’s training. 
Medicham	308	Generation 3	Fighting Psychic 		Meditate Pokemon	 Pure Power Telepathy  			4′3″ (1.30m) 		69.4 lbs (31.5 kg) 		First stage
Ruby It is said that through meditation, MEDICHAM heightens energy inside its body and sharpens its sixth sense. This POKéMON hides its presence by merging itself with fields and mountains. Sapphire Through the power of meditation, MEDICHAM developed its sixth sense. It gained the ability to use psychokinetic powers. This POKéMON is known to meditate for a whole month without eating. FireRed LeafGreen It elegantly avoids attacks with dance-like steps, then launches a devastating blow in the same motion. Emerald Through crushingly harsh yoga training, it gained the power to foretell its foe’s actions. It battles with elegant, dance-like movement. Diamond Through yoga training, it has honed its sixth sense. Its movements are elegant. Pearl Through daily meditation, it hones its spiritual power. It can sense what others are thinking. Platinum It gains the ability to see the aura of its opponents by honing its mind through starvation. HeartGold SoulSilver Through yoga training, it gained the psychic power to predict its foe’s next move. Black White Black 2 White 2 It gains the ability to see the aura of its opponents by honing its mind through starvation. X It elegantly avoids attacks with dance-like steps, then launches a devastating blow in the same motion. Y Through yoga training, it gained the psychic power to predict its foe’s next move. Omega Ruby It is said that through meditation, Medicham heightens energy inside its body and sharpens its sixth sense. This Pokémon hides its presence by merging itself with fields and mountains. Alpha Sapphire Through the power of meditation, Medicham developed its sixth sense. It gained the ability to use psychokinetic powers. This Pokémon is known to meditate for a whole month without eating. 
Electrike	309	Generation 3	Electric 		Lightning Pokemon	 Lightning Rod Static Minus  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		33.5 lbs (15.2 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby ELECTRIKE stores electricity in its long body hair. This POKéMON stimulates its leg muscles with electric charges. These jolts of power give its legs explosive acceleration performance. Sapphire ELECTRIKE runs faster than the human eye can follow. The friction from running is converted into electricity, which is then stored in this POKéMON’s fur. FireRed LeafGreen It stores static electricity in its fur for discharging. It gives off sparks if a storm approaches. Emerald It generates electricity using friction from the atmosphere. In seasons with especially arid air, its entire body blazes with violent showers of sparks. Diamond Pearl Platinum Using electricity stored in its fur, it stimulates its muscles to heighten its reaction speed. HeartGold SoulSilver It stores electricity in its fur. It gives off sparks from all over its body in seasons when the air is dry. Black White Black 2 White 2 Using electricity stored in its fur, it stimulates its muscles to heighten its reaction speed. X Using electricity stored in its fur, it stimulates its muscles to heighten its reaction speed. Y It stores static electricity in its fur for discharging. It gives off sparks if a storm approaches. Omega Ruby Electrike stores electricity in its long body hair. This Pokémon stimulates its leg muscles with electric charges. These jolts of power give its legs explosive acceleration performance. Alpha Sapphire Electrike runs faster than the human eye can follow. The friction from running is converted into electricity, which is then stored in this Pokémon’s fur. 
Manectric	310	Generation 3	Electric 		Discharge Pokemon	 Lightning Rod Static Minus  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		88.6 lbs (40.2 kg) 		First stage
Ruby MANECTRIC is constantly discharging electricity from its mane. The sparks sometimes ignite forest fires. When it enters a battle, this POKéMON creates thunderclouds. Sapphire MANECTRIC discharges strong electricity from its mane. The mane is used for collecting electricity in the atmosphere. This POKéMON creates thunderclouds above its head. FireRed LeafGreen It rarely appears before people. It is said to nest where lightning has fallen. Emerald Because lightning falls in their vicinities, MANECTRIC were thought to have been born from lightning. In battle, they create thunderclouds. Diamond Pearl Platinum It discharges electricity from its mane. It creates a thundercloud overhead to drop lightning bolts. HeartGold SoulSilver Its nest can be found where a thunderbolt hits. It is discharging electricity from its mane. Black White Black 2 White 2 It discharges electricity from its mane. It creates a thundercloud overhead to drop lightning bolts. X It rarely appears before people. It is said to nest where lightning has fallen. Y It discharges electricity from its mane. It creates a thundercloud overhead to drop lightning bolts. Omega Ruby Manectric is constantly discharging electricity from its mane. The sparks sometimes ignite forest fires. When it enters a battle, this Pokémon creates thunderclouds. Alpha Sapphire Manectric discharges strong electricity from its mane. The mane is used for collecting electricity in the atmosphere. This Pokémon creates thunderclouds above its head. 
Plusle		311	Generation 3	Electric 		Cheering Pokemon	 Plus Lightning Rod  			1′4″ (0.41m) 		9.3 lbs (4.2 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Minun		312	Generation 3	Electric 		Cheering Pokemon	 Minus Volt Absorb  			1′4″ (0.41m) 		9.3 lbs (4.2 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Volbeat		313	Generation 3	Bug 			Firefly Pokemon		 Illuminate Swarm Prankster  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		39 lbs (17.7 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Illumise	314	Generation 3	Bug 			Firefly Pokemon		 Oblivious Tinted Lens Prankster  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		39 lbs (17.7 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Roselia		315	Generation 3	Grass Poison 		Thorn Pokemon		 Natural Cure Poison Point Leaf Guard  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		4.4 lbs (2.0 kg) 		First stage
Ruby ROSELIA shoots sharp thorns as projectiles at any opponent that tries to steal the flowers on its arms. The aroma of this POKéMON brings serenity to living things. Sapphire On extremely rare occasions, a ROSELIA is said to appear with its flowers in unusual colors. The thorns on this POKéMON’s head contain a vicious poison. FireRed LeafGreen Its flowers give off a relaxing fragrance. The stronger its aroma, the healthier the ROSELIA is. Emerald A ROSELIA that drinks nutritionally rich springwater blooms with lovely flowers. The fragrance of its flowers has the effect of making its foes careless. Diamond ROSELIA raised on clean drinking water are known to grow vividly colored flowers. Pearl The beautiful flowers on its arms have toxic thorns. Don’t even think about picking those flowers. Platinum The more healthy the ROSELIA, the more pleasant its flowers’ aroma. Its scent deeply relaxes people. HeartGold SoulSilver ROSELIA that drink nutritionally rich springwater are said to reveal rare coloration when they bloom. Black White The more healthy the Roselia, the more pleasant its flowers’ aroma. Its scent deeply relaxes people. Black 2 White 2 It uses the different poisons in each hand separately when it attacks. The stronger its aroma, the healthier it is. X It uses the different poisons in each hand separately when it attacks. The stronger its aroma, the healthier it is. Y Roselia that drink nutritionally rich springwater are said to reveal rare coloration when they bloom. Omega Ruby Roselia shoots sharp thorns as projectiles at any opponent that tries to steal the flowers on its arms. The aroma of this Pokémon brings serenity to living things. Alpha Sapphire On extremely rare occasions, a Roselia is said to appear with its flowers in unusual colors. The thorns on this Pokémon’s head contain a vicious poison. 
Gulpin		316	Generation 3	Poison 			Stomach Pokemon		 Liquid Ooze Sticky Hold Gluttony  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		22.7 lbs (10.3 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby Virtually all of GULPIN’s body is its stomach. As a result, it can swallow something its own size. This POKéMON’s stomach contains a special fluid that digests anything. Sapphire Most of GULPIN’s body is made up of its stomach - its heart and brain are very small in comparison. This POKéMON’s stomach contains special enzymes that dissolve anything. FireRed LeafGreen There is nothing its stomach can’t digest. While it is digesting, vile, overpowering gases are expelled. Emerald This POKéMON’s stomach fluid can even digest scrap iron. In one gulp, it can swallow something that is as large as itself. Diamond Pearl Platinum Almost all its body is its stomach. Its harsh digestive juices quickly dissolve anything it swallows. HeartGold SoulSilver It has a small heart and brain. Its stomach comprises most of its body, with enzymes to dissolve anything. Black White Black 2 White 2 Almost all its body is its stomach. Its harsh digestive juices quickly dissolve anything it swallows. X It has a small heart and brain. Its stomach comprises most of its body, with enzymes to dissolve anything. Y There is nothing its stomach can’t digest. While it is digesting, vile, overpowering gases are expelled. Omega Ruby Virtually all of Gulpin’s body is its stomach. As a result, it can swallow something its own size. This Pokémon’s stomach contains a special fluid that digests anything. Alpha Sapphire Most of Gulpin’s body is made up of its stomach—its heart and brain are very small in comparison. This Pokémon’s stomach contains special enzymes that dissolve anything. 
Swalot		317	Generation 3	Poison 			Poison Bag Pokemon	 Liquid Ooze Sticky Hold Gluttony  	5′7″ (1.70m) 		176.4 lbs (80.0 kg) 		First stage
Ruby When SWALOT spots prey, it spurts out a hideously toxic fluid from its pores and sprays the target. Once the prey has weakened, this POKéMON gulps it down whole with its cavernous mouth. Sapphire SWALOT has no teeth, so what it eats, it swallows whole, no matter what. Its cavernous mouth yawns widely. An automobile tire could easily fit inside this POKéMON’s mouth. FireRed LeafGreen It can swallow a tire whole in one gulp. It secretes a horribly toxic fluid from the pores on its body. Emerald Its powerful stomach acid is capable of digesting almost anything. The one thing in the whole world a SWALOT can’t digest is its own stomach. Diamond Pearl Platinum It swallows anything whole. It sweats toxic fluids from its follicles to douse foes. HeartGold SoulSilver It gulps anything that fits in its mouth. Its special enzymes can dissolve anything. Black White Black 2 White 2 It swallows anything whole. It sweats toxic fluids from its follicles to douse foes. X It swallows anything whole. It sweats toxic fluids from its follicles to douse foes. Y It gulps anything that fits in its mouth. Its special enzymes can dissolve anything. Omega Ruby When Swalot spots prey, it spurts out a hideously toxic fluid from its pores and sprays the target. Once the prey has weakened, this Pokémon gulps it down whole with its cavernous mouth. Alpha Sapphire Swalot has no teeth, so what it eats, it swallows whole, no matter what. Its cavernous mouth yawns widely. An automobile tire could easily fit inside this Pokémon’s mouth. 
Carvanha	318	Generation 3	Water Dark 		Savage Pokemon		 Rough Skin Speed Boost  		2′7″ (0.79m) 		45.9 lbs (20.8 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby CARVANHA’s strongly developed jaws and its sharply pointed fangs pack the destructive power to rip out boat hulls. Many boats have been attacked and sunk by this POKéMON. Sapphire If anything invades CARVANHA’s territory, it will swarm and tear at the intruder with its pointed fangs. On its own, however, this POKéMON turns suddenly timid. FireRed LeafGreen It lives in massive rivers that course through jungles. It swarms prey that enter its territory. Emerald CARVANHA attack ships in swarms, making them sink. Although it is said to be a very vicious POKéMON, it timidly flees as soon as it finds itself alone. Diamond Pearl Platinum They swarm any foe that invades their territory. Their sharp fangs can tear out boat hulls. HeartGold SoulSilver They form packs to attack boats and rip out their hulls to sink them. They live in rivers in the jungle. Black White Black 2 White 2 They swarm any foe that invades their territory. Their sharp fangs can tear out boat hulls. X They form packs to attack boats and rip out their hulls to sink them. They live in rivers in the jungle. Y It lives in massive rivers that course through jungles. It swarms prey that enter its territory. Omega Ruby Carvanha’s strongly developed jaws and its sharply pointed fangs pack the destructive power to rip out boat hulls. Many boats have been attacked and sunk by this Pokémon. Alpha Sapphire If anything invades Carvanha’s territory, it will swarm and tear at the intruder with its pointed fangs. On its own, however, this Pokémon turns suddenly timid. Sun Each school has its own territory. Any intruders are mercilessly attacked with fangs bared. Moon If they scent the faintest trace of blood, they rush to attack en masse. When alone, they’re rather cowardly. 
Sharpedo	319	Generation 3	Water Dark 		Brutal Pokemon		 Rough Skin Speed Boost  		5′11″ (1.80m) 		195.8 lbs (88.8 kg) 		First stage
Ruby Nicknamed “the bully of the sea,” SHARPEDO is widely feared. Its cruel fangs grow back immediately if they snap off. Just one of these POKéMON can thoroughly tear apart a supertanker. Sapphire SHARPEDO can swim at speeds of up to 75 mph by jetting seawater out of its backside. This POKéMON’s drawback is its inability to swim long distances. FireRed LeafGreen The ruffian of the seas, it has fangs that crunch through iron. It swims by jetting water from its rear. Emerald The vicious and sly gangster of the sea. Its skin is specially textured to minimize drag in water. Its speed tops out at over 75 miles per hour. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its fangs rip through sheet iron. It swims at 75 mph and is known as “The Bully of the Sea.” HeartGold SoulSilver It can swim at speeds of 75 mph by jetting seawater through its body. It is the bandit of the sea. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its fangs rip through sheet iron. It swims at 75 mph and is known as “The Bully of the Sea.” X Its fangs rip through sheet iron. It swims at 75 mph and is known as “The Bully of the Sea.” Y It can swim at speeds of 75 mph by jetting seawater through its body. It is the bandit of the sea. Omega Ruby Nicknamed “the bully of the sea,” Sharpedo is widely feared. Its cruel fangs grow back immediately if they snap off. Just one of these Pokémon can thoroughly tear apart a supertanker. Alpha Sapphire Sharpedo can swim at speeds of up to 75 mph by jetting seawater out of its backside. This Pokémon’s drawback is its inability to swim long distances. Sun It pursues its prey at speeds of 75 mph and finishes them off with fangs that can crush iron. It is known as the bully of the sea. Moon It has a sad history. In the past, its dorsal fin was a treasured foodstuff, so this Pokémon became a victim of overfishing. 
Wailmer		320	Generation 3	Water 			Ball Whale Pokemon	 Oblivious Water Veil Pressure  	6′7″ (2.01m) 		286.6 lbs (130.0 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby WAILMER’s nostrils are located above its eyes. This playful POKéMON loves to startle people by forcefully snorting out seawater it stores inside its body out of its nostrils. Sapphire WAILMER can store water inside its body to transform itself into a ball for bouncing around on the ground. By filling itself up with more water, this POKéMON can elevate the height of its bounces. FireRed LeafGreen When it sucks in a large volume of seawater, it becomes like a big, bouncy ball. It eats a ton of food daily. Emerald While this POKéMON usually lives in the sea, it can survive on land, although not too long. It loses vitality if its body becomes dried out. Diamond Pearl Platinum On sunny days, it lands on beaches to bounce like a ball and play. It spouts water from its nose. HeartGold SoulSilver It bounces playfully like a ball. The more seawater it swallows, the higher it bounces. Black White On sunny days, it lands on beaches to bounce like a ball and play. It spouts water from its nose. Black 2 White 2 It eats one ton of food every day. It plays by shooting stored seawater out its blowholes with great force. X It bounces playfully like a ball. The more seawater it swallows, the higher it bounces. Y It eats one ton of food every day. It plays by shooting stored seawater out its blowholes with great force. Omega Ruby Wailmer’s nostrils are located above its eyes. This playful Pokémon loves to startle people by forcefully snorting out seawater it stores inside its body out of its nostrils. Alpha Sapphire Wailmer can store water inside its body to transform itself into a ball for bouncing around on the ground. By filling itself up with more water, this Pokémon can elevate the height of its bounces. Sun It loves to startle people. It fills itself up with seawater and plays by bouncing around like a ball. Moon It shows off by spraying jets of seawater from the nostrils above its eyes. It eats a solid ton of Wishiwashi every day. 
Wailord		321	Generation 3	Water 			Float Whale Pokemon	 Oblivious Water Veil Pressure  	47′7″ (14.50m) 		877.4 lbs (398.0 kg) 		First stage
Ruby WAILORD is the largest of all identified POKéMON up to now. This giant POKéMON swims languorously in the vast open sea, eating massive amounts of food at once with its enormous mouth. Sapphire When chasing prey, WAILORD herds them by leaping out of the water and making a humongous splash. It is breathtaking to see this POKéMON leaping out of the sea with others in its pod. FireRed LeafGreen It is among the largest of all POKéMON. It herds prey in a pack then swallows the massed prey in one gulp. Emerald It breathes through nostrils that it raises above the sea. By inhaling to its maximum capacity, a WAILORD can dive close to 10,000 feet beneath the waves. Diamond Pearl Platinum The biggest of all Pokémon. It can dive to a depth of almost 10,000 feet on only one breath. HeartGold SoulSilver It is the largest of all identified Pokémon. They jump as a pack to herd their prey. Black White The biggest of all Pokémon. It can dive to a depth of almost 10,000 feet on only one breath. Black 2 White 2 It can sometimes knock out opponents with the shock created by breaching and crashing its big body onto the water. X It can sometimes knock out opponents with the shock created by breaching and crashing its big body onto the water. Y The biggest of all Pokémon. It can dive to a depth of almost 10,000 feet on only one breath. Omega Ruby Wailord is the largest of all identified Pokémon up to now. This giant Pokémon swims languorously in the vast open sea, eating massive amounts of food at once with its enormous mouth. Alpha Sapphire When chasing prey, Wailord herds them by leaping out of the water and making a humongous splash. It is breathtaking to see this Pokémon leaping out of the sea with others in its pod. Sun Wailord pursue their prey in pods. With their large mouths, they can swallow entire schools of Wishiwashi whole. Moon Its immense size is the reason for its popularity. Wailord watching is a favorite sightseeing activity in various parts of the world. 
Numel		322	Generation 3	Fire Ground 		Numb Pokemon		 Oblivious Simple Own Tempo  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		52.9 lbs (24.0 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby NUMEL is extremely dull witted - it doesn’t notice being hit. However, it can’t stand hunger for even a second. This POKéMON’s body is a seething cauldron of boiling magma. Sapphire NUMEL stores magma of almost 2,200 degrees F within its body. If it gets wet, the magma cools and hardens. In that event, the POKéMON’s body grows heavy and its movements become sluggish. FireRed LeafGreen Magma of almost 2,200 degrees Fahrenheit courses through its body. When it grows cold, the magma hardens and slows it. Emerald A NUMEL stores boiling magma in the hump on its back. It is a hardy POKéMON that can transport a 220-pound load. It has served humans at work since long ago. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its humped back stores intensely hot magma. In rain, the magma cools, slowing its movement. HeartGold SoulSilver The flaming magma it stores in the hump on its back is the source of its tremendous power. Black White Its humped back stores intensely hot magma. In rain, the magma cools, slowing its movement. Black 2 White 2 The magma in its body reaches 2,200 degrees F. Its hump gets smaller when it uses Fire-type moves. X Its humped back stores intensely hot magma. In rain, the magma cools, slowing its movement. Y The magma in its body reaches 2,200 degrees Fahrenheit. Its hump gets smaller when it uses Fire-type moves. Omega Ruby Numel is extremely dull witted—it doesn’t notice being hit. However, it can’t stand hunger for even a second. This Pokémon’s body is a seething cauldron of boiling magma. Alpha Sapphire Numel stores magma of almost 2,200 degrees Fahrenheit within its body. If it gets wet, the magma cools and hardens. In that event, the Pokémon’s body grows heavy and its movements become sluggish. 
Camerupt	323	Generation 3	Fire Ground 		Eruption Pokemon	 Magma Armor Solid Rock Anger Point  	6′3″ (1.91m) 		485 lbs (220.0 kg) 		First stage
Ruby CAMERUPT has a volcano inside its body. Magma of 18,000 degrees F courses through its body. Occasionally, the humps on this POKéMON’s back erupt, spewing the superheated magma. Sapphire The humps on CAMERUPT’s back are formed by a transformation of its bones. They sometimes blast out molten magma. This POKéMON apparently erupts often when it is enraged. FireRed LeafGreen If angered, the humps on its back erupt in a shower of molten lava. It lives in the craters of volcanoes. Emerald A POKéMON that lives in the crater of a volcano. Every 10 years, the volcanoes on its back erupt violently. Research is under way on the cause of eruption. Diamond Pearl Platinum It has volcanoes on its back. If magma builds up in its body, it shudders, then erupts violently. HeartGold SoulSilver It lives in the crater of a volcano. It is well known that the humps on its back erupt every 10 years. Black White It has volcanoes on its back. If magma builds up in its body, it shudders, then erupts violently. Black 2 White 2 The volcanoes on its back have a major eruption every 10 years--or whenever it becomes really angry. X The volcanoes on its back have a major eruption every 10 years--or whenever it becomes really angry. Y If angered, the humps on its back erupt in a shower of molten lava. It lives in the craters of volcanoes. Omega Ruby Camerupt has a volcano inside its body. Magma of 18,000 degrees Fahrenheit courses through its body. Occasionally, the humps on this Pokémon’s back erupt, spewing the superheated magma. Alpha Sapphire The humps on Camerupt’s back are formed by a transformation of its bones. They sometimes blast out molten magma. This Pokémon apparently erupts often when it is enraged. 
Torkoal		324	Generation 3	Fire 			Coal Pokemon		 Drought White Smoke Shell Armor  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		177.3 lbs (80.4 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Spoink		325	Generation 3	Psychic 		Bounce Pokemon		 Own Tempo Thick Fat Gluttony  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		67.5 lbs (30.6 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby SPOINK bounces around on its tail. The shock of its bouncing makes its heart pump. As a result, this POKéMON cannot afford to stop bouncing - if it stops, its heart will stop. Sapphire SPOINK keeps a pearl on top of its head. The pearl functions to amplify this POKéMON’s psychokinetic powers. It is therefore on a constant search for a bigger pearl. FireRed LeafGreen It apparently dies if it stops bouncing about. It carries a pearl from CLAMPERL on its head. Emerald A POKéMON that manipulates psychic power at will. It doesn’t stop bouncing even when it is asleep. It loves eating mushrooms that grow underground. Diamond Pearl Platinum It bounces constantly, using its tail like a spring. The shock of bouncing keeps its heart beating. HeartGold SoulSilver It bounces around on its tail to keep its heart pumping. It carries a pearl from CLAMPERL on its head. Black White It bounces constantly, using its tail like a spring. The shock of bouncing keeps its heart beating. Black 2 White 2 Using its tail like a spring, it keeps its heart beating by bouncing constantly. If it stops, it dies. X It bounces constantly, using its tail like a spring. The shock of bouncing keeps its heart beating. Y It bounces around on its tail to keep its heart pumping. It carries a pearl from Clamperl on its head. Omega Ruby Spoink bounces around on its tail. The shock of its bouncing makes its heart pump. As a result, this Pokémon cannot afford to stop bouncing—if it stops, its heart will stop. Alpha Sapphire Spoink keeps a pearl on top of its head. The pearl functions to amplify this Pokémon’s psychokinetic powers. It is therefore on a constant search for a bigger pearl. 
Grumpig		326	Generation 3	Psychic 		Manipulate Pokemon	 Own Tempo Thick Fat Gluttony  	2′11″ (0.89m) 		157.6 lbs (71.5 kg) 		First stage
Ruby GRUMPIG uses the black pearls on its body to amplify its psychic power waves for gaining total control over its foe. When this POKéMON uses its special power, its snorting breath grows labored. Sapphire GRUMPIG uses the black pearls on its body to wield its fantastic powers. When it is doing so, it dances bizarrely. This POKéMON’s black pearls are valuable as works of art. FireRed LeafGreen It can gain control over foes by doing odd dance steps. The black pearls on its forehead are precious gems. Emerald It stores power in the black pearls on its forehead. When it uses psychic power, it performs an odd dance step. Its style of dancing became hugely popular overseas. Diamond Pearl Platinum It uses black pearls to amplify its psycho-power. It does an odd dance to gain control over foes. HeartGold SoulSilver It can perform odd dance steps to influence foes. Its style of dancing became hugely popular overseas. Black White It uses black pearls to amplify its psycho-power. It does an odd dance to gain control over foes. Black 2 White 2 It uses black pearls to amplify its psychic power. It does a strange dance to control foes’ minds. X It uses black pearls to amplify its psychic power. It does a strange dance to control foes’ minds. Y It uses black pearls to amplify its psychic power. It does an odd dance to gain control over foes. Omega Ruby Grumpig uses the black pearls on its body to amplify its psychic power waves for gaining total control over its foe. When this Pokémon uses its special power, its snorting breath grows labored. Alpha Sapphire Grumpig uses the black pearls on its body to wield its fantastic powers. When it is doing so, it dances bizarrely. This Pokémon’s black pearls are valuable as works of art. 
Spinda		327	Generation 3	Normal 			Spot Panda Pokemon	 Own Tempo Tangled Feet Contrary  	3′7″ (1.09m) 		11 lbs (5.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Trapinch	328	Generation 3	Ground 			Ant Pit Pokemon		 Arena Trap Hyper Cutter Sheer Force  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		33.1 lbs (15.0 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby TRAPINCH’s nest is a sloped, bowl-like pit dug in sand. This POKéMON patiently waits for prey to tumble down the pit. Its giant jaws have enough strength to crush even boulders. Sapphire TRAPINCH is a patient hunter. It digs an inescapable pit in a desert and waits for its prey to come tumbling down. This POKéMON can go a whole week without access to any water. FireRed LeafGreen It lives in arid deserts. It makes a sloping pit trap in sand where it patiently awaits prey. Emerald Its big jaws crunch through boulders. Because its head is so big, it has a hard time getting back upright if it tips over onto its back. Diamond Pearl Platinum It makes a conical pit in desert sand and lies in wait at the bottom for prey to come tumbling down. HeartGold SoulSilver Its nest is a sloped, bowl-like pit in the desert. Once something has fallen in, there is no escape. Black White It makes a conical pit in desert sand and lies in wait at the bottom for prey to come tumbling down. Black 2 White 2 It makes an inescapable conical pit and lies in wait at the bottom for prey to come tumbling down. X It lives in arid deserts. It makes a sloping pit trap in sand where it patiently awaits prey. Y It makes an inescapable conical pit and lies in wait at the bottom for prey to come tumbling down. Omega Ruby Trapinch’s nest is a sloped, bowl-like pit dug in sand. This Pokémon patiently waits for prey to tumble down the pit. Its giant jaws have enough strength to crush even boulders. Alpha Sapphire Trapinch is a patient hunter. It digs an inescapable pit in a desert and waits for its prey to come tumbling down. This Pokémon can go a whole week without access to any water. Sun It can live for a week without eating a thing. It waits patiently at the bottom of its nest for prey to appear. Moon As it digs through the sand, its giant jaws crush any rocks that obstruct its path. It builds a funnel-shaped nest. 
Vibrava		329	Generation 3	Ground Dragon 		Vibration Pokemon	 Levitate 				3′7″ (1.09m) 		33.7 lbs (15.3 kg) 		First stage
Ruby To make prey faint, VIBRAVA generates ultrasonic waves by vigorously making its two wings vibrate. This POKéMON’s ultrasonic waves are so powerful, they can bring on headaches in people. Sapphire VIBRAVA’s wings have not yet completed the process of growing. Rather than flying long distances, they are more useful for generating ultrasonic waves by vibrating. FireRed LeafGreen It generates ultrasonic waves by violently flapping its wings. After making its prey faint, it melts the prey with acid. Emerald It looses ultrasonic waves by rubbing its wings together. Since a VIBRAVA’s wings are still in the process of growing, it can only fly short distances. Diamond Pearl Platinum It violently shudders its wings, generating ultrasonic waves to induce headaches in people. HeartGold SoulSilver It vibrates its wings vigorously, creating ultrasonic waves that cause serious headaches. Black White It violently shudders its wings, generating ultrasonic waves to induce headaches in people. Black 2 White 2 The ultrasonic waves it generates by rubbing its two wings together cause severe headaches. X The ultrasonic waves it generates by rubbing its two wings together cause severe headaches. Y It generates ultrasonic waves by violently flapping its wings. After making its prey faint, it melts the prey with acid. Omega Ruby To make prey faint, Vibrava generates ultrasonic waves by vigorously making its two wings vibrate. This Pokémon’s ultrasonic waves are so powerful, they can bring on headaches in people. Alpha Sapphire Vibrava’s wings have not yet completed the process of growing. Rather than flying long distances, they are more useful for generating ultrasonic waves by vibrating. Sun Rather than using its underdeveloped wings for flight, it rubs them together, producing ultrasonic waves to attack its enemies. Moon To help make its wings grow, it dissolves quantities of prey in its digestive juices and guzzles them down every day. 
Flygon		330	Generation 3	Ground Dragon 		Mystic Pokemon		 Levitate 				6′7″ (2.01m) 		180.8 lbs (82.0 kg) 		Second stage
Ruby FLYGON is nicknamed “the elemental spirit of the desert.” Because its flapping wings whip up a cloud of sand, this POKéMON is always enveloped in a sandstorm while flying. Sapphire FLYGON whips up a sandstorm by flapping its wings. The wings create a series of notes that sound like singing. Because the “singing” is the only thing that can be heard in a sandstorm, this POKéMON is said to be the desert spirit. FireRed LeafGreen It hides itself by kicking up desert sand with its wings. Red covers shield its eyes from sand. Emerald The flapping of its wings sounds like singing. To prevent detection by enemies, it hides itself by flapping up a cloud of desert sand. Diamond Pearl Platinum It whips up sandstorms with powerful flaps of its wings. It is known as “The Desert Spirit.” HeartGold SoulSilver It is nicknamed “The Desert Spirit” because the flapping of its wings sounds like a woman singing. Black White It whips up sandstorms with powerful flaps of its wings. It is known as “The Desert Spirit.” Black 2 White 2 Known as “The Desert Spirit,” this Pokémon hides in the sandstorms it causes by beating its wings. X It hides itself by kicking up desert sand with its wings. Red covers shield its eyes from sand. Y Known as “The Desert Spirit,” this Pokémon hides in the sandstorms it causes by beating its wings. Omega Ruby Flygon is nicknamed “the elemental spirit of the desert.” Because its flapping wings whip up a cloud of sand, this Pokémon is always enveloped in a sandstorm while flying. Alpha Sapphire Flygon whips up a sandstorm by flapping its wings. The wings create a series of notes that sound like singing. Because the “singing” is the only thing that can be heard in a sandstorm, this Pokémon is said to be the desert spirit. Sun The flapping of its wings sounds something like singing. Those lured by the sound are enveloped in a sandstorm, becoming Flygon’s prey. Moon This Pokémon hides in the heart of sandstorms it creates and seldom appears where people can see it. 
Cacnea		331	Generation 3	Grass 			Cactus Pokemon		 Sand Veil Water Absorb  		1′4″ (0.41m) 		113.1 lbs (51.3 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby CACNEA lives in arid locations such as deserts. It releases a strong aroma from its flower to attract prey. When prey comes near, this POKéMON shoots sharp thorns from its body to bring the victim down. Sapphire The more arid and harsh the environment, the more pretty and fragrant a flower CACNEA grows. This POKéMON battles by wildly swinging its thorny arms. FireRed LeafGreen It prefers harsh environments such as deserts. It can survive for 30 days on water stored in its body. Emerald CACNEA live in deserts with virtually no rainfall. It battles by swinging its thick, spiked arms. Once a year, a yellow flower blooms. Diamond Pearl Platinum By storing water in its body, this desert dweller can survive for 30 days without water. HeartGold SoulSilver It lives in arid locations. Its yellow flowers bloom once a year. Black White Black 2 White 2 By storing water in its body, this desert dweller can survive for 30 days without water. X It lives in arid locations. Its yellow flowers bloom once a year. Y It prefers harsh environments such as deserts. It can survive for 30 days on water stored in its body. Omega Ruby Cacnea lives in arid locations such as deserts. It releases a strong aroma from its flower to attract prey. When prey comes near, this Pokémon shoots sharp thorns from its body to bring the victim down. Alpha Sapphire The more arid and harsh the environment, the more pretty and fragrant a flower Cacnea grows. This Pokémon battles by wildly swinging its thorny arms. 
Cacturne	332	Generation 3	Grass Dark 		Scarecrow Pokemon	 Sand Veil Water Absorb  		4′3″ (1.30m) 		170.6 lbs (77.4 kg) 		First stage
Ruby During the daytime, CACTURNE remains unmoving so that it does not lose any moisture to the harsh desert sun. This POKéMON becomes active at night when the temperature drops. Sapphire If a traveler is going through a desert in the thick of night, CACTURNE will follow in a ragtag group. The POKéMON are biding their time, waiting for the traveler to tire and become incapable of moving. FireRed LeafGreen It lives in deserts. It becomes active at night when it hunts for prey exhausted from the desert’s heat. Emerald After spending thousands of years in harsh deserts, its blood transformed into the same substances as sand. It is nocturnal, so it hunts at night. Diamond Pearl Platinum It becomes active at night, seeking prey that is exhausted from the day’s desert heat. HeartGold SoulSilver Packs of them follow travelers through the desert until the travelers can no longer move. Black White Black 2 White 2 It becomes active at night, seeking prey that is exhausted from the day’s desert heat. X It becomes active at night, seeking prey that is exhausted from the day’s desert heat. Y Packs of them follow travelers through the desert until the travelers can no longer move. Omega Ruby During the daytime, Cacturne remains unmoving so that it does not lose any moisture to the harsh desert sun. This Pokémon becomes active at night when the temperature drops. Alpha Sapphire If a traveler is going through a desert in the thick of night, Cacturne will follow in a ragtag group. The Pokémon are biding their time, waiting for the traveler to tire and become incapable of moving. 
Swablu		333	Generation 3	Normal Flying 		Cotton Bird Pokemon	 Natural Cure Cloud Nine  		1′4″ (0.41m) 		2.6 lbs (1.2 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby SWABLU has light and fluffy wings that are like cottony clouds. This POKéMON is not frightened of people. It lands on the heads of people and sits there like a cotton-fluff hat. Sapphire SWABLU loves to make things clean. If it spots something dirty, it will wipe and polish it with its cottony wings. If its wings become dirty, this POKéMON finds a stream and showers itself. FireRed LeafGreen It constantly grooms its cotton-like wings. It takes a shower to clean itself if it becomes dirty. Emerald A POKéMON that has wings like cottony clouds. After enduring winter, in which little food is available, SWABLU flocks move closer to towns in the spring. Diamond Pearl Its wings are like cotton tufts. If it perches on someone’s head, it looks like a cotton hat. Platinum It can’t relax if it or its surroundings are not clean. It wipes off dirt with its wings. HeartGold SoulSilver Its wings bring cottony clouds to mind. It grooms with springwater and loves to sit on heads. Black White It can’t relax if it or its surroundings are not clean. It wipes off dirt with its wings. Black 2 White 2 For some reason, it likes to land on people’s heads softly and act like it’s a hat. X For some reason, it likes to land on people’s heads softly and act like it’s a hat. Y It constantly grooms its cotton-like wings. It takes a shower to clean itself if it becomes dirty. Omega Ruby Swablu has light and fluffy wings that are like cottony clouds. This Pokémon is not frightened of people. It lands on the heads of people and sits there like a cotton-fluff hat. Alpha Sapphire Swablu loves to make things clean. If it spots something dirty, it will wipe and polish it with its cottony wings. If its wings become dirty, this Pokémon finds a stream and showers itself. 
Altaria		334	Generation 3	Dragon Flying 		Humming Pokemon		 Natural Cure Cloud Nine  		3′7″ (1.09m) 		45.4 lbs (20.6 kg) 		First stage
Ruby ALTARIA dances and wheels through the sky among billowing, cotton-like clouds. By singing melodies in its crystal-clear voice, this POKéMON makes its listeners experience dreamy wonderment. Sapphire ALTARIA sings in a gorgeous soprano. Its wings are like cotton clouds. This POKéMON catches updrafts with its buoyant wings and soars way up into the wild blue yonder. FireRed LeafGreen If you hear a beautiful melody trilling deep among mountains far from people, it is ALTARIA’s humming. Emerald It hums in a beautiful soprano voice. It flies among white clouds in the blue sky. It launches intensely hot fireballs from its mouth. Diamond Pearl It looks like a fluffy cloud when it is in flight. It hums with its soprano voice. Platinum If it bonds with a person, it will gently envelop the friend with its soft wings, then hum. HeartGold SoulSilver It flies gracefully through the sky. Its melodic humming makes you feel like you’re in a dream. Black White If it bonds with a person, it will gently envelop the friend with its soft wings, then hum. Black 2 White 2 On sunny days, it flies freely through the sky and blends into the clouds. It sings in a beautiful soprano. X It flies gracefully through the sky. Its melodic humming makes you feel like you’re in a dream. Y On sunny days, it flies freely through the sky and blends into the clouds. It sings in a beautiful soprano. Omega Ruby Altaria dances and wheels through the sky among billowing, cotton-like clouds. By singing melodies in its crystal-clear voice, this Pokémon makes its listeners experience dreamy wonderment. Alpha Sapphire Altaria sings in a gorgeous soprano. Its wings are like cotton clouds. This Pokémon catches updrafts with its buoyant wings and soars way up into the wild blue yonder. 
Zangoose	335	Generation 3	Normal 			Cat Ferret Pokemon	 Immunity Toxic Boost  			4′3″ (1.30m) 		88.8 lbs (40.3 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Seviper		336	Generation 3	Poison 			Fang Snake Pokemon	 Shed Skin Infiltrator  			8′10″ (2.69m) 		115.7 lbs (52.5 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Lunatone	337	Generation 3	Rock Psychic 		Meteorite Pokemon	 Levitate 				3′3″ (0.99m) 		370.4 lbs (168.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Solrock		338	Generation 3	Rock Psychic 		Meteorite Pokemon	 Levitate 				3′11″ (1.19m) 		339.5 lbs (154.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Barboach	339	Generation 3	Water Ground 		Whiskers Pokemon	 Anticipation Oblivious Hydration  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		4.2 lbs (1.9 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby BARBOACH’s sensitive whiskers serve as a superb radar system. This POKéMON hides in mud, leaving only its two whiskers exposed while it waits for prey to come along. Sapphire BARBOACH’s body is covered with a slimy film. If a foe grabs it, this POKéMON just slips out of the enemy’s grip. This POKéMON grows weak if the slimy coating dries up. FireRed LeafGreen It probes muddy riverbeds with its two long whiskers. A slimy film protects its body. Emerald Its body is covered with a slimy film. The film acts as a barrier to prevent germs in muddy water from entering the BARBOACH’s body. Diamond It coats its entire body with a slimy fluid so it can squirm and slip away if grabbed. Pearl Its whiskers make a superb radar. They are used to locate prey, even in the murkiest of water. Platinum Its slimy body is hard to grasp. In one region, it is said to have been born from hardened mud. HeartGold SoulSilver BARBOACH uses its whiskers to taste things just as a person uses his or her tongue to taste things. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its slimy body is hard to grasp. In one region, it is said to have been born from hardened mud. X It coats its entire body with a slimy fluid so it can squirm and slip away if grabbed. Y Its whiskers make a superb radar. They are used to locate prey, even in the murkiest of water. Omega Ruby Barboach’s sensitive whiskers serve as a superb radar system. This Pokémon hides in mud, leaving only its two whiskers exposed while it waits for prey to come along. Alpha Sapphire Barboach’s body is covered with a slimy film. If a foe grabs it, this Pokémon just slips out of the enemy’s grip. This Pokémon grows weak if the slimy coating dries up. Sun Its two whiskers provide a sensitive radar. Even in muddy waters, it can detect its prey’s location. Moon Its slippery body is hard to grasp, so much so that there are festivals where people compete to see how many they can catch barehanded. 
Whiscash	340	Generation 3	Water Ground 		Whiskers Pokemon	 Anticipation Oblivious Hydration  	2′11″ (0.89m) 		52 lbs (23.6 kg) 		First stage
Ruby WHISCASH is extremely territorial. Just one of these POKéMON will claim a large pond as its exclusive territory. If a foe approaches it, it thrashes about and triggers a massive earthquake. Sapphire If WHISCASH goes on a wild rampage, it sets off a quake-like tremor with a radius of over three miles. This POKéMON has the ability to predict real earthquakes. FireRed LeafGreen It makes its nest at the bottom of swamps. It will eat anything - if it is alive, WHISCASH will eat it. Emerald Mysteriously, it can foretell earthquakes. In the daytime, it sleeps in mud at the bottom of a pond. When it awakens, it continually feeds throughout the night. Diamond It is very territorial. It repels foes by setting off tremors that extend over a three-mile radius. Pearl As a result of causing tremors by thrashing about, it developed the ability to foretell real quakes. Platinum It is extremely protective of its territory. If any foe approaches, it attacks using vicious tremors. HeartGold SoulSilver It claims a large swamp to itself. If a foe comes near it, it sets off tremors by thrashing around. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is extremely protective of its territory. If any foe approaches, it attacks using vicious tremors. X It claims a large swamp to itself. If a foe comes near it, it sets off tremors by thrashing around. Y It makes its nest at the bottom of swamps. It will eat anything--if it is alive, Whiscash will eat it. Omega Ruby Whiscash is extremely territorial. Just one of these Pokémon will claim a large pond as its exclusive territory. If a foe approaches it, it thrashes about and triggers a massive earthquake. Alpha Sapphire If Whiscash goes on a wild rampage, it sets off a quake-like tremor with a radius of over three miles. This Pokémon has the ability to predict real earthquakes. Sun A glutton that devours anything that moves, it quietly lurks at the bottom of swamps, lying in wait for prey. Moon Sighting Whiscash leaping from the water is believed to herald an earthquake. 
Corphish	341	Generation 3	Water 			Ruffian Pokemon		 Hyper Cutter Shell Armor Adaptability  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		25.4 lbs (11.5 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby CORPHISH were originally foreign POKéMON that were imported as pets. They eventually turned up in the wild. This POKéMON is very hardy and has greatly increased its population. Sapphire CORPHISH catches prey with its sharp claws. It has no likes or dislikes when it comes to food - it will eat anything. This POKéMON has no trouble living in filthy water. FireRed LeafGreen It came from overseas. It is a very hardy creature that will quickly proliferate, even in polluted streams. Emerald Once it grips prey with its large pincers, it will never let go, no matter what. It is a hardy POKéMON that can thrive in any environment. Diamond Pearl Platinum Its hardy vitality enables it to adapt to any environment. Its pincers will never release prey. HeartGold SoulSilver It was originally a Pokémon from afar that escaped to the wild. It can adapt to the dirtiest river. Black White Its hardy vitality enables it to adapt to any environment. Its pincers will never release prey. Black 2 White 2 No matter how dirty the water in the river, it will adapt and thrive. It has a strong will to survive. X No matter how dirty the water in the river, it will adapt and thrive. It has a strong will to survive. Y Its hardy vitality enables it to adapt to any environment. Its pincers will never release prey. Omega Ruby Corphish were originally foreign Pokémon that were imported as pets. They eventually turned up in the wild. This Pokémon is very hardy and has greatly increased its population. Alpha Sapphire Corphish catches prey with its sharp claws. It has no likes or dislikes when it comes to food—it will eat anything. This Pokémon has no trouble living in filthy water. 
Crawdaunt	342	Generation 3	Water Dark 		Rogue Pokemon		 Hyper Cutter Shell Armor Adaptability  	3′7″ (1.09m) 		72.3 lbs (32.8 kg) 		First stage
Ruby CRAWDAUNT has an extremely violent nature that compels it to challenge other living things to battle. Other life-forms refuse to live in ponds inhabited by this POKéMON, making them desolate places. Sapphire CRAWDAUNT molts (sheds) its shell regularly. Immediately after molting, its shell is soft and tender. Until the shell hardens, this POKéMON hides in its streambed burrow to avoid attack from its foes. FireRed LeafGreen A rough customer that wildly flails its giant claws. It is said to be extremely hard to raise. Emerald A brutish POKéMON that loves to battle. A veteran CRAWDAUNT that has prevailed in hundreds of battles has giant pincers marked with countless scars. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is a ruffian that uses its pincers to pick up and toss out other Pokémon from its pond. HeartGold SoulSilver A brutish Pokémon that loves to battle. It will crash itself into any foe that approaches its nest. Black White It is a ruffian that uses its pincers to pick up and toss out other Pokémon from its pond. Black 2 White 2 Loving to battle, this Pokémon pinches all Pokémon that enter its territory with its pincers and throws them out. X It is a ruffian that uses its pincers to pick up and toss out other Pokémon from its pond. Y Loving to battle, this Pokémon pinches all Pokémon that enter its territory with its pincers and throws them out. Omega Ruby Crawdaunt has an extremely violent nature that compels it to challenge other living things to battle. Other life-forms refuse to live in ponds inhabited by this Pokémon, making them desolate places. Alpha Sapphire Crawdaunt molts (sheds) its shell regularly. Immediately after molting, its shell is soft and tender. Until the shell hardens, this Pokémon hides in its streambed burrow to avoid attack from its foes. 
Baltoy		343	Generation 3	Ground Psychic 		Clay Doll Pokemon	 Levitate 				1′8″ (0.51m) 		47.4 lbs (21.5 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby BALTOY moves while spinning around on its one foot. Primitive wall paintings depicting this POKéMON living among people were discovered in some ancient ruins. Sapphire As soon as it spots others of its kind, BALTOY congregates with them and then begins crying noisily in unison. This POKéMON sleeps while cleverly balancing itself on its one foot. FireRed LeafGreen It was discovered in ancient ruins. While moving, it constantly spins. It stands on one foot even when asleep. Emerald A BALTOY moves by spinning on its single foot. It has been depicted in murals adorning the walls of a once-bustling city in an ancient age. Diamond Pearl Platinum It moves by spinning on its foot. It is a rare Pokémon that was discovered in ancient ruins. HeartGold SoulSilver It moves while spinning around on its single foot. Some BALTOY have been seen spinning on their heads. Black White It moves by spinning on its foot. It is a rare Pokémon that was discovered in ancient ruins. Black 2 White 2 Discovered in ancient ruins, it moves by spinning around and forms a group when it finds others. X It moves while spinning around on its single foot. Some Baltoy have been seen spinning on their heads. Y It moves by spinning on its foot. It is a rare Pokémon that was discovered in ancient ruins. Omega Ruby Baltoy moves while spinning around on its one foot. Primitive wall paintings depicting this Pokémon living among people were discovered in some ancient ruins. Alpha Sapphire As soon as it spots others of its kind, Baltoy congregates with them and then begins crying noisily in unison. This Pokémon sleeps while cleverly balancing itself on its one foot. 
Claydol		344	Generation 3	Ground Psychic 		Clay Doll Pokemon	 Levitate 				4′11″ (1.50m) 		238.1 lbs (108.0 kg) 		First stage
Ruby CLAYDOL are said to be dolls of mud made by primitive humans and brought to life by exposure to a mysterious ray. This POKéMON moves about while levitating. Sapphire CLAYDOL is an enigma that appeared from a clay statue made by an ancient civilization dating back 20,000 years. This POKéMON shoots beams from both its hands. FireRed LeafGreen It appears to have been born from clay dolls made by ancient people. It uses telekinesis to float and move. Emerald A CLAYDOL sleeps while hovering in midair. Its arms are separate from its body. They are kept floating by the POKéMON’s manipulation of psychic power. Diamond Pearl Platinum An ancient clay figurine that came to life as a Pokémon from exposure to a mysterious ray of light. HeartGold SoulSilver It is said that it originates from clay dolls made by an ancient civilization. Black White An ancient clay figurine that came to life as a Pokémon from exposure to a mysterious ray of light. Black 2 White 2 This mysterious Pokémon started life as an ancient clay figurine made over 20,000 years ago. X An ancient clay figurine that came to life as a Pokémon from exposure to a mysterious ray of light. Y It is said that it originates from clay dolls made by an ancient civilization. Omega Ruby Claydol are said to be dolls of mud made by primitive humans and brought to life by exposure to a mysterious ray. This Pokémon moves about while levitating. Alpha Sapphire Claydol is an enigma that appeared from a clay statue made by an ancient civilization dating back 20,000 years. This Pokémon shoots beams from both its hands. 
Lileep		345	Generation 3	Rock Grass 		Sea Lily Pokemon	 Suction Cups Storm Drain  		3′3″ (0.99m) 		52.5 lbs (23.8 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby LILEEP became extinct approximately a hundred million years ago. This ancient POKéMON attaches itself to a rock on the seafloor and catches approaching prey using tentacles shaped like flower petals. Sapphire LILEEP is an ancient POKéMON that was regenerated from a fossil. It remains permanently anchored to a rock. From its immobile perch, this POKéMON intently scans for prey with its two eyes. FireRed LeafGreen It became extinct roughly 100 million years ago. It was regenerated from a fossil using advanced techniques. Emerald It disguises itself as seaweed by making its tentacles sway. Unsuspecting prey that come too close are swallowed whole. It became extinct 100 million years ago. Diamond Pearl Platinum It lived on the seafloor 100 million years ago and was reanimated scientifically. HeartGold SoulSilver It disguises its tentacles as flowers to attract and catch prey. It became extinct in ancient times. Black White Black 2 White 2 It lived on the seafloor 100 million years ago and was reanimated scientifically. X It disguises its tentacles as flowers to attract and catch prey. It became extinct in ancient times. Y It lived on the seafloor 100 million years ago and was reanimated scientifically. Omega Ruby Lileep became extinct approximately a hundred million years ago. This ancient Pokémon attaches itself to a rock on the seafloor and catches approaching prey using tentacles shaped like flower petals. Alpha Sapphire Lileep is an ancient Pokémon that was regenerated from a fossil. It remains permanently anchored to a rock. From its immobile perch, this Pokémon intently scans for prey with its two eyes. 
Cradily		346	Generation 3	Rock Grass 		Barnacle Pokemon	 Suction Cups Storm Drain  		4′11″ (1.50m) 		133.2 lbs (60.4 kg) 		First stage
Ruby CRADILY roams around the ocean floor in search of food. This POKéMON freely extends its tree trunk-like neck and captures unwary prey using its eight tentacles. Sapphire CRADILY’s body serves as an anchor, preventing it from being washed away in rough seas. This POKéMON secretes a strong digestive fluid from its tentacles. FireRed LeafGreen It ensnares prey with its eight tentacles. It then melts the prey with a strong acid before feeding. Emerald It drags its heavy body along the seafloor. It makes its nest in the shallows of warm seas. CRADILY can be seen on beaches when the tide goes out. Diamond Pearl Platinum It lives in the shallows of warm seas. When the tide goes out, it digs up prey from beaches. HeartGold SoulSilver It lives in warm seas. Its heavy body weighs it down so it won’t get washed away in rough weather. Black White Black 2 White 2 It lives in the shallows of warm seas. When the tide goes out, it digs up prey from beaches. X It lives in the shallows of warm seas. When the tide goes out, it digs up prey from beaches. Y It ensnares prey with its eight tentacles. It then melts the prey with a strong acid before feeding. Omega Ruby Cradily roams around the ocean floor in search of food. This Pokémon freely extends its tree trunk-like neck and captures unwary prey using its eight tentacles. Alpha Sapphire Cradily’s body serves as an anchor, preventing it from being washed away in rough seas. This Pokémon secretes a strong digestive fluid from its tentacles. 
Anorith		347	Generation 3	Rock Bug 		Old Shrimp Pokemon	 Battle Armor Swift Swim  		2′4″ (0.71m) 		27.6 lbs (12.5 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby ANORITH was regenerated from a prehistoric fossil. This primitive POKéMON once lived in warm seas. It grips its prey firmly between its two large claws. Sapphire ANORITH is said to be a type of POKéMON predecessor, with eight wings at the sides of its body. This POKéMON swam in the primordial sea by undulating these eight wings. FireRed LeafGreen It is a kind of POKéMON progenitor. It uses its extending claws to catch prey hiding among rocks on the seafloor. Emerald It was resurrected from a fossil using the power of science. It swims by undulating the eight wings at its sides. They were feet that adapted to life in the sea. Diamond Pearl Platinum A Pokémon ancestor that was reanimated from a fossil. It lived in the sea and hunted with claws. HeartGold SoulSilver An ancestral Pokémon that lived in the ocean. Over time, its eight feet transformed into wings. Black White Black 2 White 2 A Pokémon ancestor that was reanimated from a fossil. It lived in the sea and hunted with claws. X It is a kind of Pokémon progenitor. It uses its extending claws to catch prey hiding among rocks on the seafloor. Y A Pokémon ancestor that was reanimated from a fossil. It lived in the sea and hunted with claws. Omega Ruby Anorith was regenerated from a prehistoric fossil. This primitive Pokémon once lived in warm seas. It grips its prey firmly between its two large claws. Alpha Sapphire Anorith is said to be a type of Pokémon predecessor, with eight wings at the sides of its body. This Pokémon swam in the primordial sea by undulating these eight wings. 
Armaldo		348	Generation 3	Rock Bug 		Plate Pokemon		 Battle Armor Swift Swim  		4′11″ (1.50m) 		150.4 lbs (68.2 kg) 		First stage
Ruby ARMALDO’s tough armor makes all attacks bounce off. This POKéMON’s two enormous claws can be freely extended or contracted. They have the power to punch right through a steel slab. Sapphire ARMALDO is a POKéMON species that became extinct in prehistoric times. This POKéMON is said to have walked on its hind legs, which would have been more convenient for life on land. FireRed LeafGreen Protected by a hard shell, its body is very sturdy. It skewers prey with its claws to feed. Emerald ARMALDO usually lives on land. However, when it hunts for prey, it dives beneath the ocean. It swims around using its two large wings. Diamond Pearl Platinum It went ashore after evolving. Its entire body is clad in a sturdy armor. HeartGold SoulSilver Its enormous, retractable claws can cut through most anything. Its entire body is clad in sturdy plates. Black White Black 2 White 2 It went ashore after evolving. Its entire body is clad in a sturdy armor. X Its enormous, retractable claws can cut through most anything. Its entire body is clad in sturdy plates. Y Protected by a hard shell, its body is very sturdy. It skewers prey with its claws to feed. Omega Ruby Armaldo’s tough armor makes all attacks bounce off. This Pokémon’s two enormous claws can be freely extended or contracted. They have the power to punch right through a steel slab. Alpha Sapphire Armaldo is a Pokémon species that became extinct in prehistoric times. This Pokémon is said to have walked on its hind legs, which would have been more convenient for life on land. 
Feebas		349	Generation 3	Water 			Fish Pokemon		 Oblivious Swift Swim Adaptability  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		16.3 lbs (7.4 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby FEEBAS’s fins are ragged and tattered from the start of its life. Because of its shoddy appearance, this POKéMON is largely ignored. It is capable of living in both the sea and in rivers. Sapphire While FEEBAS’s body is in tatters, it has a hardy and tenacious life force that enables it to live anywhere. However, this POKéMON is also slow and dimwitted, making it an easy catch. FireRed LeafGreen Ridiculed for its shabby appearance, it is ignored by researchers. It lives in ponds choked with weeds. Emerald FEEBAS live in ponds that are heavily infested with weeds. Because of its hopelessly shabby appearance, it seems as if few TRAINERS raise it. Diamond It is famous for its shabby appearance. While populous, they tend to cluster in set locations. Pearl It eats anything, so it can even live in polluted streams and lakes. No one pays any attention to it. Platinum It is a shabby and ugly Pokémon. However, it is very hardy and can survive on little water. HeartGold SoulSilver It is the shabbiest Pokémon of all. It forms in schools and lives at the bottom of rivers. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is a shabby and ugly Pokémon. However, it is very hardy and can survive on little water. X It eats anything, so it can even live in polluted streams and lakes. No one pays any attention to it. Y It is the shabbiest Pokémon of all. It forms in schools and lives at the bottom of rivers. Omega Ruby Feebas’s fins are ragged and tattered from the start of its life. Because of its shoddy appearance, this Pokémon is largely ignored. It is capable of living in both the sea and in rivers. Alpha Sapphire While Feebas’s body is in tatters, it has a hardy and tenacious life force that enables it to live anywhere. However, this Pokémon is also slow and dimwitted, making it an easy catch. Sun A tough Pokémon that is perfectly fine even in dirty water. However, due to its ragged, shabby appearance, it isn’t popular. Moon Although unattractive and unpopular, this Pokémon’s marvelous vitality has made it a subject of research. 
Milotic		350	Generation 3	Water 			Tender Pokemon		 Competitive Marvel Scale Cute Charm  	20′4″ (6.20m) 		357.1 lbs (162.0 kg) 		First stage
Ruby MILOTIC is said to be the most beautiful of all the POKéMON. It has the power to becalm such emotions as anger and hostility to quell bitter feuding. Sapphire MILOTIC live at the bottom of large lakes. When this POKéMON’s body glows a vivid pink, it releases a pulsing wave of energy that brings soothing calm to restless spirits. FireRed LeafGreen MILOTIC is breathtakingly beautiful. Those that see it are said to forget their combative spirits. Emerald It is said to live at the bottom of large lakes. Considered to be the most beautiful of all POKéMON, it has been depicted in paintings and statues. Diamond When people bicker, it is said to arise from the depths of lakes to becalm violent hearts. Pearl It is the world’s most beautiful Pokémon. There are many works of art featuring MILOTIC. Platinum Its lovely scales are described as rainbow colored. They change color depending on the viewing angle. HeartGold SoulSilver It’s said that a glimpse of a MILOTIC and its beauty will calm any hostile emotions you’re feeling. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its lovely scales are described as rainbow colored. They change color depending on the viewing angle. X Milotic is breathtakingly beautiful. Those that see it are said to forget their combative spirits. Y It is the world’s most beautiful Pokémon. There are many works of art featuring Milotic. Omega Ruby Milotic is said to be the most beautiful of all the Pokémon. It has the power to becalm such emotions as anger and hostility to quell bitter feuding. Alpha Sapphire Milotic live at the bottom of large lakes. When this Pokémon’s body glows a vivid pink, it releases a pulsing wave of energy that brings soothing calm to troubled hearts. Sun Milotic has provided inspiration to many artists. It has even been referred to as the most beautiful Pokémon of all. Moon It lives at the bottom of clear lakes. In times of war, it shows itself, which soothes people’s minds and hearts. 
Castform	351	Generation 3	Normal 			Weather Pokemon		 Forecast 				1′0″ (0.30m) 		1.8 lbs (0.8 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Kecleon		352	Generation 3	Normal 			Color Swap Pokemon	 Color Change Protean  			3′3″ (0.99m) 		48.5 lbs (22.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Shuppet		353	Generation 3	Ghost 			Puppet Pokemon		 Frisk Insomnia Cursed Body  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		5.1 lbs (2.3 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby SHUPPET is attracted by feelings of jealousy and vindictiveness. If someone develops strong feelings of vengeance, this POKéMON will appear in a swarm and line up beneath the eaves of that person’s home. Sapphire SHUPPET grows by feeding on dark emotions, such as vengefulness and envy, in the hearts of people. It roams through cities in search of grudges that taint people. FireRed LeafGreen It loves to feed on feelings like envy and malice. Its upright horn catches the emotions of people. Emerald This POKéMON roams about deep in the night seeking such negative emotions as grudges and envy. It retreats to its nest when the sun begins to rise. Diamond Pearl Platinum It loves vengeful emotions and hangs in rows under the eaves of houses where vengeful people live. HeartGold SoulSilver It uses its horn to feed on envy and malice, or so it’s said. It’s very active at night. Black White It loves vengeful emotions and hangs in rows under the eaves of houses where vengeful people live. Black 2 White 2 It feeds on the dark emotions of sadness and hatred, which make it grow steadily stronger. X It uses its horn to feed on envy and malice--or so it’s said. It’s very active at night. Y It loves vengeful emotions and hangs in rows under the eaves of houses where vengeful people live. Omega Ruby Shuppet is attracted by feelings of jealousy and vindictiveness. If someone develops strong feelings of vengeance, this Pokémon will appear in a swarm and line up beneath the eaves of that person’s home. Alpha Sapphire Shuppet grows by feeding on dark emotions, such as vengefulness and envy, in the hearts of people. It roams through cities in search of grudges that taint people. 
Banette		354	Generation 3	Ghost 			Marionette Pokemon	 Frisk Insomnia Cursed Body  	3′7″ (1.09m) 		27.6 lbs (12.5 kg) 		First stage
Ruby BANETTE generates energy for laying strong curses by sticking pins into its own body. This POKéMON was originally a pitiful plush doll that was thrown away. Sapphire A cursed energy permeated the stuffing of a discarded and forgotten plush doll, giving it new life as BANETTE. The POKéMON’s energy would escape if it were to ever open its mouth. FireRed LeafGreen Strong feelings of hatred turned a puppet into a POKéMON. If it opens its mouth, its cursed energy escapes. Emerald An abandoned plush doll became this POKéMON. They are said to live in garbage dumps and wander about in search of the children that threw them away. Diamond Pearl Platinum A doll that became a Pokémon over its grudge from being junked. It seeks the child that disowned it. HeartGold SoulSilver This Pokémon developed from an abandoned doll that amassed a grudge. It is seen in dark alleys. Black White A doll that became a Pokémon over its grudge from being junked. It seeks the child that disowned it. Black 2 White 2 A doll that became a Pokémon over its grudge of being thrown away. It seeks the child who disowned it. X A doll that became a Pokémon over its grudge from being junked. It seeks the child that disowned it. Y Strong feelings of hatred turned a puppet into a Pokémon. If it opens its mouth, its cursed energy escapes. Omega Ruby Banette generates energy for laying strong curses by sticking pins into its own body. This Pokémon was originally a pitiful plush doll that was thrown away. Alpha Sapphire A cursed energy permeated the stuffing of a discarded and forgotten plush doll, giving it new life as Banette. The Pokémon’s energy would escape if it were to ever open its mouth. 
Duskull		355	Generation 3	Ghost 			Requiem Pokemon		 Levitate Frisk  			2′7″ (0.79m) 		33.1 lbs (15.0 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby DUSKULL can pass through any wall no matter how thick it may be. Once this POKéMON chooses a target, it will doggedly pursue the intended victim until the break of dawn. Sapphire DUSKULL wanders lost among the deep darkness of midnight. There is an oft-told admonishment given to misbehaving children that this POKéMON will spirit away bad children who earn scoldings from their mothers. FireRed LeafGreen Making itself invisible, it silently sneaks up to prey. It has the ability to slip through thick walls. Emerald A glare from its single scarlet eye makes even burly grown-ups freeze in utter fear. It is a nocturnal POKéMON that roams about under the cloak of darkness. Diamond Pearl It doggedly pursues its prey wherever it goes. However, the chase is abandoned at sunrise. Platinum It loves the crying of children. It startles bad kids by passing through walls and making them cry. HeartGold SoulSilver If it finds bad children who won’t listen to their parents, it will spirit them away--or so it’s said. Black White Black 2 White 2 It loves the crying of children. It startles bad kids by passing through walls and making them cry. X It doggedly pursues its prey wherever it goes. However, the chase is abandoned at sunrise. Y If it finds bad children who won’t listen to their parents, it will spirit them away--or so it’s said. Omega Ruby Duskull can pass through any wall no matter how thick it may be. Once this Pokémon chooses a target, it will doggedly pursue the intended victim until the break of dawn. Alpha Sapphire Duskull wanders lost among the deep darkness of midnight. There is an oft-told admonishment given to misbehaving children that this Pokémon will spirit away bad children who earn scoldings from their mothers. 
Dusclops	356	Generation 3	Ghost 			Beckon Pokemon		 Pressure Frisk  			5′3″ (1.60m) 		67.5 lbs (30.6 kg) 		First stage
Ruby DUSCLOPS’s body is completely hollow - there is nothing at all inside. It is said that its body is like a black hole. This POKéMON will absorb anything into its body, but nothing will ever come back out. Sapphire DUSCLOPS absorbs anything, however large the object may be. This POKéMON hypnotizes its foe by waving its hands in a macabre manner and by bringing its single eye to bear. The hypnotized foe is made to do DUSCLOPS’s bidding. FireRed LeafGreen Its body is entirely hollow. When it opens its mouth, it sucks everything in as if it were a black hole. Emerald It is thought that its body is hollow with only a spectral ball of fire burning inside. However, no one has been able to confirm this theory as fact. Diamond Pearl Its body is hollow. It is said that those who look into its body are sucked into the void. Platinum It seeks drifting will-o’-the-wisps and sucks them into its empty body. What happens inside is a mystery. HeartGold SoulSilver Anyone who dares peer into its body to see its spectral ball of fire will have their spirit stolen away. Black White Black 2 White 2 It seeks drifting will-o’-the-wisps and sucks them into its empty body. What happens inside is a mystery. X Anyone who dares peer into its body to see its spectral ball of fire will have their spirit stolen away. Y Its body is hollow. It is said that those who look into its body are sucked into the void. Omega Ruby Dusclops’s body is completely hollow—there is nothing at all inside. It is said that its body is like a black hole. This Pokémon will absorb anything into its body, but nothing will ever come back out. Alpha Sapphire Dusclops absorbs anything, however large the object may be. This Pokémon hypnotizes its foe by waving its hands in a macabre manner and by bringing its single eye to bear. The hypnotized foe is made to do Dusclops’s bidding. 
Tropius		357	Generation 3	Grass Flying 		Fruit Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Solar Power Harvest  	6′7″ (2.01m) 		220.5 lbs (100.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Chimecho	358	Generation 3	Psychic 		Wind Chime Pokemon	 Levitate 				2′0″ (0.61m) 		2.2 lbs (1.0 kg) 		First stage
Ruby CHIMECHO makes its cries echo inside its hollow body. When this POKéMON becomes enraged, its cries result in ultrasonic waves that have the power to knock foes flying. Sapphire In high winds, CHIMECHO cries as it hangs from a tree branch or the eaves of a building using a suction cup on its head. This POKéMON plucks berries with its long tail and eats them. FireRed LeafGreen It travels by riding on winds. It cleverly uses its long tail to pluck nuts and berries, which it loves to eat. Emerald They fly about very actively when the hot season arrives. They communicate among themselves using seven different and distinguishing cries. Diamond To knock foes flying, it makes the air shudder with its cries. It converses using seven cries. Pearl Emitting ultrasonic cries, it floats on winds to travel great distances. Platinum Its cries echo inside its hollow body to emerge as beautiful notes for startling and repelling foes. HeartGold SoulSilver It uses the sucker on its head to hang from a tree or from eaves. It can produce seven different tones. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its cries echo inside its hollow body to emerge as beautiful notes for startling and repelling foes. X It uses the sucker on its head to hang from a tree or from eaves. It can produce seven different tones. Y Emitting ultrasonic cries, it floats on winds to travel great distances. Omega Ruby Chimecho makes its cries echo inside its hollow body. When this Pokémon becomes enraged, its cries result in ultrasonic waves that have the power to knock foes flying. Alpha Sapphire In high winds, Chimecho cries as it hangs from a tree branch or the eaves of a building using a suction cup on its head. This Pokémon plucks berries with its long tail and eats them. 
Absol		359	Generation 3	Dark 			Disaster Pokemon	 Pressure Super Luck Justified  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		103.6 lbs (47.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Wynaut		360	Generation 3	Psychic 		Bright Pokemon		 Shadow Tag Telepathy  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		30.9 lbs (14.0 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby WYNAUT can always be seen with a big, happy smile on its face. Look at its tail to determine if it is angry. When angered, this POKéMON will be slapping the ground with its tail. Sapphire WYNAUT gather on moonlit nights to play by squeezing up against each other. By being squeezed, this POKéMON gains endurance and is trained to dole out powerful counterattacks. FireRed LeafGreen It tends to move in a pack with others. They cluster in a tight group to sleep in a cave. Emerald A WYNAUT loves to eat sweet fruits. It cleverly picks fruits using its earlike arms. They gather in fruit gardens, drawn by the fragrance. Diamond Pearl Platinum It grows strong by pushing up against others en masse. It loves eating sweet fruit. HeartGold SoulSilver It tends to move in a pack. Individuals squash against one another to toughen their spirits. Black White Black 2 White 2 It grows strong by pushing up against others en masse. It loves eating sweet fruit. X It tends to move in a pack with others. They cluster in a tight group to sleep in a cave. Y It grows strong by pushing up against others en masse. It loves eating sweet fruit. Omega Ruby Wynaut can always be seen with a big, happy smile on its face. Look at its tail to determine if it is angry. When angered, this Pokémon will be slapping the ground with its tail. Alpha Sapphire Wynaut gather on moonlit nights to play by squeezing up against each other. By being squeezed, this Pokémon gains endurance and is trained to dole out powerful counterattacks. 
Snorunt		361	Generation 3	Ice 			Snow Hat Pokemon	 Ice Body Inner Focus Moody  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		37 lbs (16.8 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby SNORUNT live in regions with heavy snowfall. In seasons without snow, such as spring and summer, this POKéMON steals away to live quietly among stalactites and stalagmites deep in caverns. Sapphire SNORUNT survives by eating only snow and ice. Old folklore claims that a house visited by this POKéMON is sure to prosper for many generations to come. FireRed LeafGreen It is said that a home visited by a SNORUNT will prosper. It can withstand cold of minus 150 degrees Fahrenheit. Emerald They tend to move about in groups of around five SNORUNT. In snowy regions, it is said that when they are seen late at night, snowfall will arrive by morning. Diamond Pearl In the snow country, certain folklore says a house will prosper if a SNORUNT lives there. Platinum It is said that several SNORUNT gather under giant leaves and live together in harmony. HeartGold SoulSilver It’s said that if they are seen at midnight, they’ll cause heavy snow. They eat snow and ice to survive. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is said that several Snorunt gather under giant leaves and live together in harmony. X It is said that several Snorunt gather under giant leaves and live together in harmony. Y In the snow country, certain folklore says a house will prosper if a Snorunt lives there. Omega Ruby Snorunt live in regions with heavy snowfall. In seasons without snow, such as spring and summer, this Pokémon steals away to live quietly among stalactites and stalagmites deep in caverns. Alpha Sapphire Snorunt survives by eating only snow and ice. Old folklore claims that a house visited by this Pokémon is sure to prosper for many generations to come. Sun Their numbers seem to have rapidly increased in Alola. Custom has it that houses where Snorunt live will be prosperous for generations to come. Moon It can only survive in cold areas. It bounces happily around, even in environments as cold as -150 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Glalie		362	Generation 3	Ice 			Face Pokemon		 Ice Body Inner Focus Moody  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		565.5 lbs (256.5 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby GLALIE has a body made of rock, which it hardens with an armor of ice. This POKéMON has the ability to freeze moisture in the atmosphere into any shape it desires. Sapphire GLALIE has the ability to freely control ice. For example, it can instantly freeze its foe solid. After immobilizing its foe in ice, this POKéMON enjoys eating it in leisurely fashion. FireRed LeafGreen It has a body of ice that won’t melt, even with fire. It can instantly freeze moisture in the atmosphere. Emerald A GLALIE has the power to instantaneously freeze moisture in the atmosphere. A dazzling cloud of diamondlike ice crystals forms around its body. Diamond Pearl To protect itself, it clads its body in an armor of ice, made by freezing moisture in the air. Platinum It prevents prey from escaping by instantaneously freezing moisture in the air. HeartGold SoulSilver It can instantly freeze moisture in the atmosphere. It uses this power to freeze its foes. Black White Black 2 White 2 It prevents prey from escaping by instantaneously freezing moisture in the air. X To protect itself, it clad its body in an armor of ice, made by freezing moisture in the air. Y It can instantly freeze moisture in the atmosphere. It uses this power to freeze its foes. Omega Ruby Glalie has a body made of rock, which it hardens with an armor of ice. This Pokémon has the ability to freeze moisture in the atmosphere into any shape it desires. Alpha Sapphire Glalie has the ability to freely control ice. For example, it can instantly freeze its prey solid. After immobilizing its prey in ice, this Pokémon enjoys eating it in leisurely fashion. Sun Legend says a boulder on an icy mountain absorbed the distress and regrets of a stranded mountaineer, giving rise to Glalie. Moon Its prey is instantaneously frozen stiff by the cold air it exhales from its huge mouth. While they’re in that frozen state, it gobbles them up. 
Spheal		363	Generation 3	Ice Water 		Clap Pokemon		 Ice Body Thick Fat Oblivious  	2′7″ (0.79m) 		87.1 lbs (39.5 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby SPHEAL is much faster rolling than walking to get around. When groups of this POKéMON eat, they all clap at once to show their pleasure. Because of this, their mealtimes are noisy. Sapphire SPHEAL always travels by rolling around on its ball-like body. When the season for ice floes arrives, this POKéMON can be seen rolling about on ice and crossing the sea. FireRed LeafGreen Its body is covered in fluffy fur. The fur keeps it from feeling cold while it is rolling on ice. Emerald It is completely covered with plushy fur. As a result, it never feels the cold even when it is rolling about on ice floes or diving in the sea. Diamond Pearl Platinum It rolls across ice floes to reach shore because its body is poorly shaped for swimming. HeartGold SoulSilver It crosses the oceans by rolling itself on drifting ice. Fluffy fur keeps it warm when the temperature is below freezing. Black White It rolls across ice floes to reach shore because its body is poorly shaped for swimming. Black 2 White 2 They can’t swim well yet, and they move much faster by rolling. When they’re happy, they clap fins. X They can’t swim well yet, and they move much faster by rolling. When they’re happy, they clap fins. Y Its body is covered in fluffy fur. The fur keeps it from feeling cold while it is rolling on ice. Omega Ruby Spheal is much faster rolling than walking to get around. When groups of this Pokémon eat, they all clap at once to show their pleasure. Because of this, their mealtimes are noisy. Alpha Sapphire Spheal always travels by rolling around on its ball-like body. When the season for ice floes arrives, this Pokémon can be seen rolling about on ice and crossing the sea. 
Sealeo		364	Generation 3	Ice Water 		Ball Roll Pokemon	 Ice Body Thick Fat Oblivious  	3′7″ (1.09m) 		193.1 lbs (87.6 kg) 		First stage
Ruby SEALEO has the habit of always juggling on the tip of its nose anything it sees for the first time. This POKéMON occasionally entertains itself by balancing and rolling a SPHEAL on its nose. Sapphire SEALEO often balances and rolls things on the tip of its nose. While the POKéMON is rolling something, it checks the object’s aroma and texture to determine whether it likes the object or not. FireRed LeafGreen It touches new things with its nose to test for smell and feel. It plays by spinning SPHEAL on its nose. Emerald SEALEO live in herds on ice floes. Using its powerful flippers, it shatters ice. It dives into the sea to hunt prey five times a day. Diamond Pearl Platinum It habitually spins things on its nose. By doing so, it learns textures and odors. HeartGold SoulSilver It has a very sensitive nose. It touches new things with its nose to examine them. Black White It habitually spins things on its nose. By doing so, it learns textures and odors. Black 2 White 2 Be it Spheal or Poké Ball, it will spin any round object on its nose with the greatest of ease. X It has a very sensitive nose. It touches new things with its nose to examine them. Y Be it Spheal or Poké Ball, it will spin any round object on its nose with the greatest of ease. Omega Ruby Sealeo has the habit of always juggling on the tip of its nose anything it sees for the first time. This Pokémon occasionally entertains itself by balancing and rolling a Spheal on its nose. Alpha Sapphire Sealeo often balances and rolls things on the tip of its nose. While the Pokémon is rolling something, it checks the object’s aroma and texture to determine whether it likes the object or not. 
Walrein		365	Generation 3	Ice Water 		Ice Break Pokemon	 Ice Body Thick Fat Oblivious  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		332 lbs (150.6 kg) 		Second stage
Ruby WALREIN’s two massively developed tusks can totally shatter blocks of ice weighing ten tons with one blow. This POKéMON’s thick coat of blubber insulates it from subzero temperatures. Sapphire WALREIN swims all over in frigid seawater while crushing icebergs with its grand, imposing tusks. Its thick layer of blubber makes enemy attacks bounce off harmlessly. FireRed LeafGreen It swims through icy seas while shattering ice floes with its large tusks. It is protected by its thick blubber. Emerald To protect its herd, the leader battles anything that invades its territory, even at the cost of its life. Its tusks may snap off in battle. Diamond Pearl Platinum It shatters ice with its big tusks. Its thick blubber repels not only the cold, but also enemy attacks. HeartGold SoulSilver It shatters drift ice with its strong tusks. Its thick layer of blubber repels enemy attacks. Black White It shatters ice with its big tusks. Its thick blubber repels not only the cold, but also enemy attacks. Black 2 White 2 Not only does its thick blubber keep it warm, it also protects it from attacks. It shatters ice with its prized tusks. X It shatters ice with its big tusks. Its thick blubber repels not only the cold, but also enemy attacks. Y It shatters drift ice with its strong tusks. Its thick layer of blubber repels enemy attacks. Omega Ruby Walrein’s two massively developed tusks can totally shatter blocks of ice weighing 10 tons with one blow. This Pokémon’s thick coat of blubber insulates it from subzero temperatures. Alpha Sapphire Walrein swims all over in frigid seawater while crushing icebergs with its grand, imposing tusks. Its thick layer of blubber makes enemy attacks bounce off harmlessly. 
Clamperl	366	Generation 3	Water 			Bivalve Pokemon		 Shell Armor Rattled  			1′4″ (0.41m) 		115.7 lbs (52.5 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby CLAMPERL’s sturdy shell is not only good for protection - it is also used for clamping and catching prey. A fully grown CLAMPERL’s shell will be scored with nicks and scratches all over. Sapphire CLAMPERL grows while being protected by its rock-hard shell. When its body becomes too large to fit inside the shell, it is sure evidence that this POKéMON is getting close to evolution. FireRed LeafGreen It is protected by a sturdy shell. Once in a lifetime, it makes a magnificent pearl. Emerald A CLAMPERL slams its shell closed on prey to prevent escape. The pearl it creates upon evolution is said to be infused with a mysterious energy. Diamond Pearl Platinum It makes a single pearl during its lifetime. The pearl is said to amplify psychic power. HeartGold SoulSilver When it evolves, it makes a mysterious pearl that amplifies psychic powers when it’s held. Black White Black 2 White 2 It makes a single pearl during its lifetime. The pearl is said to amplify psychic power. X When it evolves, it makes a mysterious pearl that amplifies psychic powers when it’s held. Y It is protected by a sturdy shell. Once in a lifetime, it makes a magnificent pearl. Omega Ruby Clamperl’s sturdy shell is not only good for protection—it is also used for clamping and catching prey. A fully grown Clamperl’s shell will be scored with nicks and scratches all over. Alpha Sapphire Clamperl grows while being protected by its rock-hard shell. When its body becomes too large to fit inside the shell, it is sure evidence that this Pokémon is getting close to evolution. 
Huntail		367	Generation 3	Water 			Deep Sea Pokemon	 Swift Swim Water Veil  			5′7″ (1.70m) 		59.5 lbs (27.0 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby HUNTAIL’s presence went unnoticed by people for a long time because it lives at extreme depths in the sea. This POKéMON’s eyes can see clearly even in the murky dark depths of the ocean. Sapphire HUNTAIL’s tail is shaped like a fish. It uses the tail to attract prey, then swallows the prey whole with its large, gaping mouth. This POKéMON swims by wiggling its slender body like a snake. FireRed LeafGreen It lives deep in the sea where no light ever filters down. It lights up its small fishlike tail to attract prey. Emerald To withstand the crushing pressure of water deep under the sea, its spine is very thick and sturdy. Its tail, which is shaped like a small fish, has eyes that light up. Diamond Pearl Platinum It lives deep in the sea. With a tail shaped like a small fish, it attracts unsuspecting prey. HeartGold SoulSilver It lives deep in the pitch-dark sea. It attracts prey by moving its tail in mimicry of a small animal. Black White Black 2 White 2 It lives deep in the sea. With a tail shaped like a small fish, it attracts unsuspecting prey. X It lives deep in the sea where no light ever filters down. It lights up its small fishlike tail to attract prey. Y It lives deep in the sea. With a tail shaped like a small fish, it attracts unsuspecting prey. Omega Ruby Huntail’s presence went unnoticed by people for a long time because it lives at extreme depths in the sea. This Pokémon’s eyes can see clearly even in the murky dark depths of the ocean. Alpha Sapphire Huntail’s tail is shaped like a fish. It uses the tail to attract prey, then swallows the prey whole with its large, gaping mouth. This Pokémon swims by wiggling its slender body like a snake. 
Gorebyss	368	Generation 3	Water 			South Sea Pokemon	 Swift Swim Hydration  			5′11″ (1.80m) 		49.8 lbs (22.6 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby GOREBYSS lives in the southern seas at extreme depths. Its body is built to withstand the enormous pressure of water at incredible depths. Because of this, this POKéMON’s body is unharmed by ordinary attacks. Sapphire Although GOREBYSS is the very picture of elegance and beauty while swimming, it is also cruel. When it spots prey, this POKéMON inserts its thin mouth into the prey’s body and drains the prey of its body fluids. FireRed LeafGreen Its swimming form is exquisitely elegant. With its thin mouth, it feeds on seaweed that grows between rocks. Emerald A GOREBYSS siphons the body fluids of prey through its thin, tubular mouth. Its light pink body color turns vivid when it finishes feeding. Diamond Pearl Platinum It lives at the bottom of the sea. In the springtime, its pink body turns more vivid for some reason. HeartGold SoulSilver Its pink body becomes more vivid with the rise of water temperatures in the springtime. Black White Black 2 White 2 It lives at the bottom of the sea. In the springtime, its pink body turns more vivid for some reason. X It lives at the bottom of the sea. In the springtime, its pink body turns more vivid for some reason. Y Its swimming form is exquisitely elegant. With its thin mouth, it feeds on seaweed that grows between rocks. Omega Ruby Gorebyss lives in the southern seas at extreme depths. Its body is built to withstand the enormous pressure of water at incredible depths. Because of this, this Pokémon’s body is unharmed by ordinary attacks. Alpha Sapphire Although Gorebyss is the very picture of elegance and beauty while swimming, it is also cruel. When it spots prey, this Pokémon inserts its thin mouth into the prey’s body and drains the prey of its body fluids. 
Relicanth	369	Generation 3	Water Rock 		Longevity Pokemon	 Rock Head Swift Swim Sturdy  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		51.6 lbs (23.4 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Luvdisc		370	Generation 3	Water 			Rendezvous Pokemon	 Swift Swim Hydration  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		19.2 lbs (8.7 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Bagon		371	Generation 3	Dragon 			Rock Head Pokemon	 Rock Head Sheer Force  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		92.8 lbs (42.1 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby BAGON has a dream of one day soaring in the sky. In doomed efforts to fly, this POKéMON hurls itself off cliffs. As a result of its dives, its head has grown tough and as hard as tempered steel. Sapphire BAGON harbors a never-ending dream of one day soaring high among the clouds. As if trying to dispel its frustration over its inability to fly, this POKéMON slams its hard head against huge rocks and shatters them into pebbles. FireRed LeafGreen Its steel-hard head can shatter boulders. It longingly hopes for wings to grow so it can fly. Emerald Although it is small, this POKéMON is very powerful because its body is a bundle of muscles. It launches head-butts with its ironlike skull. Diamond Pearl Platinum Dreaming of one day flying, it practices by leaping off cliffs every day. HeartGold SoulSilver Its well-developed neck muscles and ironlike head can smash boulders into pieces. Black White Black 2 White 2 Dreaming of one day flying, it practices by leaping off cliffs every day. X Its well-developed neck muscles and iron-like head can smash boulders into pieces. Y Dreaming of one day flying, it practices by leaping off cliffs every day. Omega Ruby Bagon has a dream of one day soaring in the sky. In doomed efforts to fly, this Pokémon hurls itself off cliffs. As a result of its dives, its head has grown tough and as hard as tempered steel. Alpha Sapphire Bagon harbors a never-ending dream of one day soaring high among the clouds. As if trying to dispel its frustration over its inability to fly, this Pokémon slams its hard head against huge rocks and shatters them into pebbles. Sun Its belief that it will be able to fly one day is apparently the influence of information carried in its genes. Moon With its steel-hard stone head, it headbutts indiscriminately. This is because of the stress it feels at being unable to fly. 
Shelgon		372	Generation 3	Dragon 			Endurance Pokemon	 Rock Head Overcoat  			3′7″ (1.09m) 		243.6 lbs (110.5 kg) 		First stage
Ruby Inside SHELGON’s armor-like shell, cells are in the midst of transformation to create an entirely new body. This POKéMON’s shell is extremely heavy, making its movements sluggish. Sapphire Covering SHELGON’s body are outgrowths much like bones. The shell is very hard and bounces off enemy attacks. When awaiting evolution, this POKéMON hides away in a cavern. FireRed LeafGreen Its armored body makes all attacks bounce off. The armor is too tough, however, making it heavy and somewhat sluggish. Emerald It hardly eats while it awaits evolution. It becomes hardier by enduring hunger. Its shell peels off the instant it begins to evolve. Diamond Pearl Platinum Within its rugged shell, its cells have begun changing. The shell peels off the instant it evolves. HeartGold SoulSilver It surrounds its body in an iron-hard shell to accumulate enough power to evolve. Black White Black 2 White 2 Within its rugged shell, its cells have begun changing. The shell peels off the instant it evolves. X Within its rugged shell, its cells have begun changing. The shell peels off the instant it evolves. Y Its armored body makes all attacks bounce off. The armor is too tough, however, making it heavy and somewhat sluggish. Omega Ruby Inside Shelgon’s armor-like shell, cells are in the midst of transformation to create an entirely new body. This Pokémon’s shell is extremely heavy, making its movements sluggish. Alpha Sapphire Covering Shelgon’s body are outgrowths much like bones. The shell is very hard and bounces off enemy attacks. When awaiting evolution, this Pokémon hides away in a cavern. Sun The cells within its shell transform with explosive speed, preparing it for evolution. Moon They lurk deep within caves—motionless, neither eating nor drinking. Why they don’t die is not known. 
Salamence	373	Generation 3	Dragon Flying 		Dragon Pokemon		 Intimidate Moxie  			4′11″ (1.50m) 		226.2 lbs (102.6 kg) 		Second stage
Ruby SALAMENCE came about as a result of a strong, long-held dream of growing wings. It is said that this powerful desire triggered a sudden mutation in this POKéMON’s cells, causing it to sprout its magnificent wings. Sapphire By evolving into SALAMENCE, this POKéMON finally realizes its long-held dream of growing wings. To express its joy, it flies and wheels all over the sky while spouting flames from its mouth. FireRed LeafGreen It becomes uncontrollable if it is enraged. It destroys everything with shredding claws and fire. Emerald After many long years, its cellular structure underwent a sudden mutation to grow wings. When angered, it loses all thought and rampages out of control. Diamond Pearl Platinum As a result of its long-held dream of flying, its cellular structure changed, and wings grew out. HeartGold SoulSilver It’s uncontrollable if enraged. It flies around spouting flames and scorching fields and mountains. Black White Black 2 White 2 As a result of its long-held dream of flying, its cellular structure changed, and wings grew out. X It becomes uncontrollable if it is enraged. It destroys everything with shredding claws and fire. Y It’s uncontrollable if enraged. It flies around spouting flames and scorching fields and mountains. Omega Ruby Salamence came about as a result of a strong, long-held dream of growing wings. It is said that this powerful desire triggered a sudden mutation in this Pokémon’s cells, causing it to sprout its magnificent wings. Alpha Sapphire By evolving into Salamence, this Pokémon finally realizes its long-held dream of growing wings. To express its joy, it flies and wheels all over the sky while spouting flames from its mouth. Sun When angered, it loses all sense of itself and destroys everything around it. The destruction will continue until Salamence has tired itself out. Moon It flies around on its wings, which have grown in at last. In its happiness, it gushes hot flames, burning up the fields it passes over. 
Beldum		374	Generation 3	Steel Psychic 		Iron Ball Pokemon	 Clear Body Light Metal  		2′0″ (0.61m) 		209.9 lbs (95.2 kg) 		Basic form
Ruby Instead of blood, a powerful magnetic force courses throughout BELDUM’s body. This POKéMON communicates with others by sending controlled pulses of magnetism. Sapphire BELDUM keeps itself floating by generating a magnetic force that repels earth’s natural magnetism. When it sleeps, this POKéMON anchors itself to a cliff using the hooks on its rear. FireRed LeafGreen It uses magnetic waves to converse with its kind. All the cells in its body are magnetic. Emerald When BELDUM gather in a swarm, they move in perfect unison as if they were but one POKéMON. They communicate with each other using brain waves. Diamond Pearl Platinum It converses with others by using magnetic pulses. In a swarm, they move in perfect unison. HeartGold SoulSilver The magnetic force generated by its body repels the ground’s natural magnetism, letting it float. Black White It converses with others by using magnetic pulses. In a swarm, they move in perfect unison. Black 2 White 2 Its cells are all magnetic, and it communicates with others by using magnetic pulses. X The magnetic force generated by its body repels the ground’s natural magnetism, letting it float. Y It converses with others by using magnetic pulses. In a swarm, they move in perfect unison. Omega Ruby Instead of blood, a powerful magnetic force courses throughout Beldum’s body. This Pokémon communicates with others by sending controlled pulses of magnetism. Alpha Sapphire Beldum keeps itself floating by generating a magnetic force that repels earth’s natural magnetism. When it sleeps, this Pokémon anchors itself to a cliff using the hooks on its rear. Sun Its cells are all magnets. It uses magnetism to communicate with others of its kind. Moon With magnetic traction, it pulls its opponents in close. When they’re in range, it slashes them with its rear claws. 
Metang		375	Generation 3	Steel Psychic 		Iron Claw Pokemon	 Clear Body Light Metal  		3′11″ (1.19m) 		446.4 lbs (202.5 kg) 		First stage
Ruby When two BELDUM fuse together, METANG is formed. The brains of the BELDUM are joined by a magnetic nervous system. By linking its brains magnetically, this POKéMON generates strong psychokinetic power. Sapphire When two BELDUM fuse together, METANG is formed. The brains of the BELDUM are joined by a magnetic nervous system. This POKéMON turns its arms to the rear for traveling at high speed. FireRed LeafGreen It floats midair using magnetism. Its body is so tough, even a crash with a jet plane won’t leave a scratch. Emerald The claws tipping its arms pack the destructive power to tear through thick iron sheets as if they were silk. It flies at over 60 miles per hour. Diamond Pearl Platinum It is formed by two BELDUM joining together. Its steel body won’t be scratched if it collides with a jet. HeartGold SoulSilver When two BELDUM fuse together, a magnetic nervous system places their brains in union. Black White It is formed by two Beldum joining together. Its steel body won’t be scratched if it collides with a jet. Black 2 White 2 It is formed by two Beldum joining together. Its two brains are linked, amplifying its psychic power. X It is formed by two Beldum joining together. Its steel body won’t be scratched if it collides with a jet. Y It is formed by two Beldum joining together. Its two brains are linked, amplifying its psychic power. Omega Ruby When two Beldum fuse together, Metang is formed. The brains of the Beldum are joined by a magnetic nervous system. By linking its brains magnetically, this Pokémon generates strong psychokinetic power. Alpha Sapphire When two Beldum fuse together, Metang is formed. The brains of the Beldum are joined by a magnetic nervous system. This Pokémon turns its arms to the rear for traveling at high speed. Sun When two Beldum link together, their psychic power is doubled. Their intelligence, however, remains unchanged. Moon It adores magnetic minerals, so it pursues Nosepass at speeds exceeding 60 mph. 
Metagross	376	Generation 3	Steel Psychic 		Iron Leg Pokemon	 Clear Body Light Metal  		5′3″ (1.60m) 		1212.5 lbs (550.0 kg) 		Second stage
Ruby METAGROSS has four brains in total. Combined, the four brains can breeze through difficult calculations faster than a supercomputer. This POKéMON can float in the air by tucking in its four legs. Sapphire METAGROSS is the result of two METANG achieving fusion. When hunting, this POKéMON pins the prey to the ground under its massive body. It then eats the helpless victim using the large mouth on its stomach. FireRed LeafGreen It is formed by two METANG fusing. Its four brains are said to be superior to a supercomputer. Emerald METAGROSS has four brains that are joined by a complex neural network. As a result of integration, this POKéMON is smarter than a supercomputer. Diamond Pearl Platinum METANG combined to form it. With four brains, it has the intelligence of a supercomputer. HeartGold SoulSilver It folds its four legs when flying. Its four brains are said to be superior to a supercomputer. Black White Metang combined to form it. With four brains, it has the intelligence of a supercomputer. Black 2 White 2 With four linked brains, it’s more intelligent than a supercomputer, and it uses calculations to analyze foes. X With four linked brains, it’s more intelligent than a supercomputer, and it uses calculations to analyze foes. Y Metang combined to form it. With four brains, it has the intelligence of a supercomputer. Omega Ruby Metagross has four brains in total. Combined, the four brains can breeze through difficult calculations faster than a supercomputer. This Pokémon can float in the air by tucking in its four legs. Alpha Sapphire Metagross is the result of two Metang achieving fusion. When hunting, this Pokémon pins the prey to the ground under its massive body. It then eats the helpless victim using the large mouth on its stomach. Sun It firmly pins its prey using its four claws and large body. Then the teeth in the mouth on its stomach chew the prey to bits. Moon A linkage of two Metang, this Pokémon can perform any calculation in a flash by utilizing parallel processing in its four brains. 
Regirock	377	Generation 3	Rock 			Rock Peak Pokemon	 Clear Body Sturdy  			5′7″ (1.70m) 		507.1 lbs (230.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Regice		378	Generation 3	Ice 			Iceberg Pokemon		 Clear Body Ice Body  			5′11″ (1.80m) 		385.8 lbs (175.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Registeel	379	Generation 3	Steel 			Iron Pokemon		 Clear Body Light Metal  		6′3″ (1.91m) 		451.9 lbs (205.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Latias		380	Generation 3	Dragon Psychic 		Eon Pokemon		 Levitate 				4′7″ (1.40m) 		88.2 lbs (40.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Latios		381	Generation 3	Dragon Psychic 		Eon Pokemon		 Levitate 				6′7″ (2.01m) 		132.3 lbs (60.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Kyogre		382	Generation 3	Water 			Sea Basin Pokemon	 Drizzle 				14′9″ (4.50m) 		776 lbs (352.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Groudon		383	Generation 3	Ground 			Continent Pokemon	 Drought 				11′6″ (3.51m) 		2094.4 lbs (950.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Rayquaza	384	Generation 3	Dragon Flying 		Sky High Pokemon	 Air Lock 				23′0″ (7.01m) 		455.3 lbs (206.5 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Jirachi		385	Generation 3	Steel Psychic 		Wish Pokemon		 Serene Grace 				1′0″ (0.30m) 		2.4 lbs (1.1 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Deoxys		386	Generation 3	Psychic 		DNA Pokemon		 Pressure 				5′7″ (1.70m) 		134 lbs (60.8 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Turtwig		387	Generation 4	Grass 			Tiny Leaf Pokemon	 Overgrow Shell Armor  			1′4″ (0.41m) 		22.5 lbs (10.2 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond Made from soil, the shell on its back hardens when it drinks water. It lives along lakes. Pearl It undertakes photosynthesis with its body, making oxygen. The leaf on its head wilts if it is thirsty. Platinum The shell on its back is made of soil. On a very healthy TURTWIG, the shell should feel moist. HeartGold SoulSilver Photosynthesis occurs across its body under the sun. The shell on its back is actually hardened soil. Black White Black 2 White 2 The shell on its back is made of soil. On a very healthy Turtwig, the shell should feel moist. X Omega Ruby Photosynthesis occurs across its body under the sun. The shell on its back is actually hardened soil. Y Alpha Sapphire It undertakes photosynthesis with its body, making oxygen. The leaf on its head wilts if it is thirsty. 
Grotle		388	Generation 4	Grass 			Grove Pokemon		 Overgrow Shell Armor  			3′7″ (1.09m) 		213.8 lbs (97.0 kg) 		First stage
Diamond It lives along water in forests. In the daytime, it leaves the forest to sunbathe its treed shell. Pearl The shell is hardened soil. Some Pokémon come to peck the berries growing on the trees on its back. Platinum It knows where pure water wells up. It carries fellow Pokémon there on its back. HeartGold SoulSilver A GROTLE that lives in the forest is said to have its own secret springwater. Black White Black 2 White 2 It knows where pure water wells up. It carries fellow Pokémon there on its back. X Omega Ruby It lives along water in forests. In the daytime, it leaves the forest to sunbathe its treed shell. Y Alpha Sapphire It knows where pure water wells up. It carries fellow Pokémon there on its back. 
Torterra	389	Generation 4	Grass Ground 		Continent Pokemon	 Overgrow Shell Armor  			7′3″ (2.21m) 		683.4 lbs (310.0 kg) 		Second stage
Diamond Small Pokémon occasionally gather on its unmoving back to begin building their nests. Pearl Groups of this Pokémon migrating in search of water have been mistaken for “moving forests.” Platinum Some Pokémon are born on a TORTERRA’s back and spend their entire life there. HeartGold SoulSilver Ancient people imagined that beneath the ground, a gigantic TORTERRA dwelled. Black White Black 2 White 2 Some Pokémon are born on a Torterra’s back and spend their entire life there. X Omega Ruby Ancient people imagined that beneath the ground, a gigantic Torterra dwelled. Y Alpha Sapphire Small Pokémon occasionally gather on its unmoving back to begin building their nests. 
Chimchar	390	Generation 4	Fire 			Chimp Pokemon		 Blaze Iron Fist  			1′8″ (0.51m) 		13.7 lbs (6.2 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond It agilely scales sheer cliffs to live atop craggy mountains. Its fire is put out when it sleeps. Pearl Its fiery rear end is fueled by gas made in its belly. Even rain can’t extinguish the fire. Platinum It is very agile. Before going to sleep, it extinguishes the flame on its tail to prevent fires. HeartGold SoulSilver The gas made in its belly burns from its rear end. The fire burns weakly when it feels sick. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is very agile. Before going to sleep, it extinguishes the flame on its tail to prevent fires. X Omega Ruby Its fiery rear end is fueled by gas made in its belly. Even rain can’t extinguish the fire. Y Alpha Sapphire The gas made in its belly burns from its rear end. The fire burns weakly when it feels sick. 
Monferno	391	Generation 4	Fire Fighting 		Playful Pokemon		 Blaze Iron Fist  			2′11″ (0.89m) 		48.5 lbs (22.0 kg) 		First stage
Diamond To intimidate attackers, it stretches the fire on its tail to make itself appear bigger. Pearl It uses ceilings and walls to launch aerial attacks. Its fiery tail is but one weapon. Platinum It skillfully controls the intensity of the fire on its tail to keep its foes at an ideal distance. HeartGold SoulSilver A bigger fire on its tail and a brighter blue pattern on its face means its rank in its pack is higher. Black White Black 2 White 2 It skillfully controls the intensity of the fire on its tail to keep its foes at an ideal distance. X Omega Ruby It skillfully controls the intensity of the fire on its tail to keep its foes at an ideal distance. Y Alpha Sapphire It uses ceilings and walls to launch aerial attacks. Its fiery tail is but one weapon. 
Infernape	392	Generation 4	Fire Fighting 		Flame Pokemon		 Blaze Iron Fist  			3′11″ (1.19m) 		121.3 lbs (55.0 kg) 		Second stage
Diamond It uses a special kind of martial arts involving all its limbs. Its fire never goes out. Pearl Its crown of fire is indicative of its fiery nature. It is beaten by none in terms of quickness. Platinum It uses unique fighting moves with fire on its hands and feet. It will take on any opponent. HeartGold SoulSilver It tosses its enemies around with agility. It uses all its limbs to fight in its own unique style. Black White Black 2 White 2 It uses unique fighting moves with fire on its hands and feet. It will take on any opponent. X Omega Ruby Its crown of fire is indicative of its fiery nature. It is beaten by none in terms of quickness. Y Alpha Sapphire It tosses its enemies around with agility. It uses all its limbs to fight in its own unique style. 
Piplup		393	Generation 4	Water 			Penguin Pokemon		 Torrent Defiant  			1′4″ (0.41m) 		11.5 lbs (5.2 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond Because it is very proud, it hates accepting food from people. Its thick down guards it from cold. Pearl It lives along shores in northern countries. A skilled swimmer, it dives for over 10 minutes to hunt. Platinum A poor walker, it often falls down. However, its strong pride makes it puff up its chest without a care. HeartGold SoulSilver It doesn’t like to be taken care of. It’s difficult to bond with since it won’t listen to its Trainer. Black White Black 2 White 2 A poor walker, it often falls down. However, its strong pride makes it puff up its chest without a care. X Omega Ruby It doesn’t like to be taken care of. It’s difficult to bond with since it won’t listen to its Trainer. Y Alpha Sapphire Because it is very proud, it hates accepting food from people. Its thick down guards it from cold. 
Prinplup	394	Generation 4	Water 			Penguin Pokemon		 Torrent Defiant  			2′7″ (0.79m) 		50.7 lbs (23.0 kg) 		First stage
Diamond It lives alone, away from others. Apparently, every one of them believes it is the most important. Pearl Its wings deliver wicked blows that snap even the thickest of trees. It searches for prey in icy seas. Platinum Because every PRINPLUP considers itself to be the most important, they can never form a group. HeartGold SoulSilver It lives a solitary life. Its wings deliver wicked blows that can snap even the thickest of trees. Black White Black 2 White 2 Because every Prinplup considers itself to be the most important, they can never form a group. X Omega Ruby It lives alone, away from others. Apparently, every one of them believes it is the most important. Y Alpha Sapphire It lives a solitary life. Its wings deliver wicked blows that can snap even the thickest of trees. 
Empoleon	395	Generation 4	Water Steel 		Emperor Pokemon		 Torrent Defiant  			5′7″ (1.70m) 		186.3 lbs (84.5 kg) 		Second stage
Diamond The three horns that extend from its beak attest to its power. The leader has the biggest horns. Pearl It swims as fast as a jet boat. The edges of its wings are sharp and can slice apart drifting ice. Platinum If anyone were to hurt its pride, it would slash them with wings that can cleave through an ice floe. HeartGold SoulSilver It avoids unnecessary disputes, but it will decimate anything that threatens its pride. Black White Black 2 White 2 If anyone were to hurt its pride, it would slash them with wings that can cleave through an ice floe. X Omega Ruby It swims as fast as a jet boat. The edges of its wings are sharp and can slice apart drifting ice. Y Alpha Sapphire The three horns that extend from its beak attest to its power. The leader has the biggest horns. 
Starly		396	Generation 4	Normal Flying 		Starling Pokemon	 Keen Eye Reckless  			1′0″ (0.30m) 		4.4 lbs (2.0 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond They flock in great numbers. Though small, they flap their wings with great power. Pearl Usually with a large flock, it is barely noticeable when alone. Its cries are very strident. Platinum Because they are weak individually, they form groups. However, they bicker if the group grows too big. HeartGold SoulSilver They flock around mountains and fields, chasing after bug Pokémon. Their singing is noisy and annoying. Black White Black 2 White 2 Because they are weak individually, they form groups. However, they bicker if the group grows too big. X Omega Ruby They flock in great numbers. Though small, they flap their wings with great power. Y Alpha Sapphire They flock around mountains and fields, chasing after bug Pokémon. Their singing is noisy and annoying. 
Staravia	397	Generation 4	Normal Flying 		Starling Pokemon	 Intimidate Reckless  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		34.2 lbs (15.5 kg) 		First stage
Diamond It flies around forests and fields in search of bug Pokémon. It stays within a huge flock. Pearl It lives in forests and fields. Squabbles over territory occur when flocks collide. Platinum Recognizing their own weakness, they always live in a group. When alone, a STARAVIA cries noisily. HeartGold SoulSilver They maintain huge flocks, although fierce scuffles break out between various flocks. Black White Black 2 White 2 Recognizing their own weakness, they always live in a group. When alone, a Staravia cries noisily. X Omega Ruby They maintain huge flocks, although fierce scuffles break out between various flocks. Y Alpha Sapphire It lives in forests and fields. Squabbles over territory occur when flocks collide. 
Staraptor	398	Generation 4	Normal Flying 		Predator Pokemon	 Intimidate Reckless  			3′11″ (1.19m) 		54.9 lbs (24.9 kg) 		Second stage
Diamond It has a savage nature. It will courageously challenge foes that are much larger. Pearl The muscles in its wings and legs are strong. It can easily fly while gripping a small Pokémon. Platinum It never stops attacking even if it is injured. It fusses over the shape of its comb. HeartGold SoulSilver When STARAVIA evolve into STARAPTOR, they leave the flock to live alone. They have sturdy wings. Black White Black 2 White 2 It never stops attacking even if it is injured. It fusses over the shape of its comb. X Omega Ruby The muscles in its wings and legs are strong. It can easily fly while gripping a small Pokémon. Y Alpha Sapphire When Staravia evolve into Staraptor, they leave the flock to live alone. They have sturdy wings. 
Bidoof		399	Generation 4	Normal 			Plump Mouse Pokemon	 Simple Unaware Moody  			1′8″ (0.51m) 		44.1 lbs (20.0 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond With nerves of steel, nothing can perturb it. It is more agile and active than it appears. Pearl It constantly gnaws on logs and rocks to whittle down its front teeth. It nests alongside water. Platinum A comparison revealed that BIDOOF’s front teeth grow at the same rate as RATTATA’s. HeartGold SoulSilver It lives in groups by the water. It chews up boulders and trees around its nest with its incisors. Black White Black 2 White 2 A comparison revealed that Bidoof’s front teeth grow at the same rate as Rattata’s. X Omega Ruby With nerves of steel, nothing can perturb it. It is more agile and active than it appears. Y Alpha Sapphire It constantly gnaws on logs and rocks to whittle down its front teeth. It nests alongside water. 
Bibarel		400	Generation 4	Normal Water 		Beaver Pokemon		 Simple Unaware Moody  			3′3″ (0.99m) 		69.4 lbs (31.5 kg) 		First stage
Diamond It makes its nest by damming streams with bark and mud. It is known as an industrious worker. Pearl While its movements out of water are sluggish, it can swim as fast as any FEEBAS. Platinum A river dammed by BIBAREL will never overflow its banks, which is appreciated by people nearby. HeartGold SoulSilver It busily makes its nest with stacks of branches and roots it has cut up with its sharp incisors. Black White Black 2 White 2 A river dammed by Bibarel will never overflow its banks, which is appreciated by people nearby. X Omega Ruby It busily makes its nest with stacks of branches and roots it has cut up with its sharp incisors. Y Alpha Sapphire It makes its nest by damming streams with bark and mud. It is known as an industrious worker. 
Kricketot	401	Generation 4	Bug 			Cricket Pokemon		 Shed Skin Run Away  			1′0″ (0.30m) 		4.9 lbs (2.2 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond It shakes its head back to front, causing its antennae to hit each other and sound like a xylophone. Pearl It chats with others using the sounds of its colliding antennae. These sounds are fall hallmarks. Platinum Its legs are short. Whenever it stumbles, its stiff antennae clack with a xylophone-like sound. HeartGold SoulSilver When its antennae hit each other, it sounds like the music of a xylophone. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its legs are short. Whenever it stumbles, its stiff antennae clack with a xylophone-like sound. X Omega Ruby It chats with others using the sounds of its colliding antennae. These sounds are fall hallmarks. Y Alpha Sapphire When its antennae hit each other, it sounds like the music of a xylophone. 
Kricketune	402	Generation 4	Bug 			Cricket Pokemon		 Swarm Technician  			3′3″ (0.99m) 		56.2 lbs (25.5 kg) 		First stage
Diamond It crosses its knifelike arms in front of its chest when it cries. It can compose melodies ad lib. Pearl It signals its emotions with its melodies. Scientists are studying these melodic patterns. Platinum There is a village that hosts a contest based on the amazingly variable cries of this Pokémon. HeartGold SoulSilver By allowing its cry to resonate in the hollow of its belly, it produces a captivating sound. Black White Black 2 White 2 There is a village that hosts a contest based on the amazingly variable cries of this Pokémon. X Omega Ruby It crosses its knifelike arms in front of its chest when it cries. It can compose melodies ad lib. Y Alpha Sapphire It signals its emotions with its melodies. Scientists are studying these melodic patterns. 
Shinx		403	Generation 4	Electric 		Flash Pokemon		 Intimidate Rivalry Guts  		1′8″ (0.51m) 		20.9 lbs (9.5 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond All of its fur dazzles if danger is sensed. It flees while the foe is momentarily blinded. Pearl Its forelegs have a muscle-based system of generating electricity. Its body shines if endangered. Platinum The extension and contraction of its muscles generates electricity. It glows when in trouble. HeartGold SoulSilver The extension and contraction of its muscles generates electricity. Its fur glows when it’s in trouble. Black White Black 2 White 2 The extension and contraction of its muscles generates electricity. It glows when in trouble. X Omega Ruby The extension and contraction of its muscles generates electricity. It glows when in trouble. Y Alpha Sapphire All of its fur dazzles if danger is sensed. It flees while the foe is momentarily blinded. 
Luxio		404	Generation 4	Electric 		Spark Pokemon		 Intimidate Rivalry Guts  		2′11″ (0.89m) 		67.2 lbs (30.5 kg) 		First stage
Diamond Its claws loose electricity with enough amperage to cause fainting. They live in small groups. Pearl It rests its forelegs on others to communicate with rhythmic electric pulses from its claws. Platinum Strong electricity courses through the tips of its sharp claws. A light scratch causes fainting in foes. HeartGold SoulSilver By gathering their tails together, they collectively generate powerful electricity from their claws. Black White Black 2 White 2 Strong electricity courses through the tips of its sharp claws. A light scratch causes fainting in foes. X Omega Ruby Its claws loose electricity with enough amperage to cause fainting. They live in small groups. Y Alpha Sapphire Strong electricity courses through the tips of its sharp claws. A light scratch causes fainting in foes. 
Luxray		405	Generation 4	Electric 		Gleam Eyes Pokemon	 Intimidate Rivalry Guts  		4′7″ (1.40m) 		92.6 lbs (42.0 kg) 		Second stage
Diamond It has eyes that can see through anything. It spots and captures prey hiding behind objects. Pearl When its eyes gleam gold, it can spot hiding prey--even those taking shelter behind a wall. Platinum It can see clearly through walls to track down its prey and seek its lost young. HeartGold SoulSilver LUXRAY’s ability to see through objects comes in handy when it’s scouting for danger. Black White Black 2 White 2 It can see clearly through walls to track down its prey and seek its lost young. X When its eyes gleam gold, it can spot hiding prey--even those taking shelter behind a wall. Y Alpha Sapphire Luxray’s ability to see through objects comes in handy when it’s scouting for danger. Omega Ruby When its eyes gleam gold, it can spot hiding prey—even those taking shelter behind a wall. 
Budew		406	Generation 4	Grass Poison 		Bud Pokemon		 Natural Cure Poison Point Leaf Guard  	0′8″ (0.20m) 		2.6 lbs (1.2 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond Over the winter, it closes its bud and endures the cold. In spring, the bud opens and releases pollen. Pearl It lives alongside clear ponds. It scatters pollen that induces harsh sneezing and runny noses. Platinum Sensitive to changing temperature, the bud is said to bloom when it feels the sun’s warm touch. HeartGold SoulSilver When it feels the sun’s warm touch, it opens its bud to release pollen. It lives alongside clear pools. Black White Sensitive to changing temperature, the bud is said to bloom when it feels the sun’s warm touch. Black 2 White 2 Sensitive to changing temperatures, the bud blooms when it’s warm, releasing toxic pollen. X Omega Ruby When it feels the sun’s warm touch, it opens its bud to release pollen. It lives alongside clear pools. Y Alpha Sapphire Over the winter, it closes its bud and endures the cold. In spring, the bud opens and releases pollen. 
Roserade	407	Generation 4	Grass Poison 		Bouquet Pokemon		 Natural Cure Poison Point Technician  	2′11″ (0.89m) 		32 lbs (14.5 kg) 		Second stage
Diamond It attracts prey with a sweet aroma, then downs it with thorny whips hidden in its arms. Pearl With the movements of a dancer, it strikes with whips that are densely lined with poison thorns. Platinum Each of its hands contains different toxins, but both hands can jab with near-fatal power. HeartGold SoulSilver Its sweet aroma attracts prey. Then it spews poison. The more toxic it is, the sweeter its aroma. Black White Each of its hands contains different toxins, but both hands can jab with near-fatal power. Black 2 White 2 Luring prey with a sweet scent, it uses poison whips on its arms to poison, bind, and finish off the prey. X Omega Ruby Luring prey with a sweet scent, it uses poison whips on its arms to poison, bind, and finish off the prey. Y Alpha Sapphire With the movements of a dancer, it strikes with whips that are densely lined with poison thorns. 
Cranidos	408	Generation 4	Rock 			Head Butt Pokemon	 Mold Breaker Sheer Force  		2′11″ (0.89m) 		69.4 lbs (31.5 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond It lived in jungles around 100 million years ago. Its skull is as hard as iron. Pearl It was resurrected from an iron ball-like fossil. It downs prey with its head butts. Platinum A lifelong jungle dweller from 100 million years ago, it would snap obstructing trees with head butts. HeartGold SoulSilver CRANIDOS toughen up their already rock-hard heads by headbutting one another. Black White Black 2 White 2 A lifelong jungle dweller from 100 million years ago, it would snap obstructing trees with head butts. X Omega Ruby It was resurrected from an iron ball-like fossil. It downs prey with its headbutts. Y Alpha Sapphire A lifelong jungle dweller from 100 million years ago, it would snap obstructing trees with headbutts. Sun It lived in jungles around a hundred million years ago. It used its skillful headbutts to combat Aerodactyl. Moon In rock layers where Cranidos fossils are found, the fossilized trunks of trees snapped in two are also often found. 
Rampardos	409	Generation 4	Rock 			Head Butt Pokemon	 Mold Breaker Sheer Force  		5′3″ (1.60m) 		226 lbs (102.5 kg) 		First stage
Diamond Its powerful head butt has enough power to shatter even the most durable things upon impact. Pearl Its skull is as hard as iron. It is a brute that tears down jungle trees while catching prey. Platinum If two were to smash their heads together, their foot-thick skulls would keep them from fainting. HeartGold SoulSilver Its skull withstands impacts of any magnitude. As a result, its brain never gets the chance to grow. Black White Black 2 White 2 If two were to smash their heads together, their foot-thick skulls would keep them from fainting. X Omega Ruby Its skull withstands impacts of any magnitude. As a result, its brain never gets the chance to grow. Y Alpha Sapphire Its skull is as hard as iron. It is a brute that tears down jungle trees while catching prey. Sun The result of repeated headbutts is a skull grown thick and hard. However, its brain has shrunk in size compared with Cranidos’s. Moon Records exist of a revived fossil that evolved into Rampardos. It proceeded to escape and then destroy a skyscraper with a headbutt. 
Shieldon	410	Generation 4	Rock Steel 		Shield Pokemon		 Sturdy Soundproof  			1′8″ (0.51m) 		125.7 lbs (57.0 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond A Pokémon that lived in jungles around 100 million years ago. Its facial hide is extremely hard. Pearl It habitually polishes its face by rubbing it against tree trunks. It is weak to attacks from behind. Platinum It is outstandingly armored. As a result, it can eat grass and berries without having to fight. HeartGold SoulSilver It was generated from a fossil dug out of a layer of clay that was older than anyone knows. It has a sturdy face. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is outstandingly armored. As a result, it can eat grass and berries without having to fight. X Omega Ruby It habitually polishes its face by rubbing it against tree trunks. It is weak to attacks from behind. Y Alpha Sapphire It was generated from a fossil dug out of a layer of clay that was older than anyone knows. It has a sturdy face. Sun Many fossils of this Pokémon have been found, but almost none have shown signs of damage to the face. Moon This Pokémon lived in primeval jungles. Few enemies would have been willing to square off against its heavily armored face, so it’s thought. 
Bastiodon	411	Generation 4	Rock Steel 		Shield Pokemon		 Sturdy Soundproof  			4′3″ (1.30m) 		329.6 lbs (149.5 kg) 		First stage
Diamond Any frontal attack is repulsed. It is a docile Pokémon that feeds on grass and berries. Pearl When attacked, they form a wall with their shieldlike faces to protect their young. Platinum When they lined up side by side, no foe could break through. They shielded their young in that way. HeartGold SoulSilver When attacked, they form a wall. Their rock-hard faces serve to protect them from the attacks. Black White Black 2 White 2 When they lined up side by side, no foe could break through. They shielded their young in that way. X Omega Ruby When they lined up side by side, no foe could break through. They shielded their young in that way. Y Alpha Sapphire Any frontal attack is repulsed. It is a docile Pokémon that feeds on grass and berries. Sun While it can guard against any sort of attack from the front, it is left without recourse when attacked from behind. Moon It lived in the same environments as Rampardos. Their fossils have been found together— seemingly from after they’d fought to the finish. 
Burmy		412	Generation 4	Bug 			Bagworm Pokemon		 Shed Skin Overcoat  			0′8″ (0.20m) 		7.5 lbs (3.4 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond To shelter itself from cold, wintry winds, it covers itself with a cloak made of twigs and leaves. Pearl If its cloak is broken in battle, it quickly remakes the cloak with materials nearby. Platinum Even if it is born where there are no cocooning materials, it somehow always ends up with a cloak. HeartGold SoulSilver It covers itself with a cloak to shelter from the cold. When it’s hot, its cloak is thinner. Black White Black 2 White 2 Even if it is born where there are no cocooning materials, it somehow always ends up with a cloak. X Omega Ruby To shelter itself from cold, wintry winds, it covers itself with a cloak made of twigs and leaves. Y Alpha Sapphire If its cloak is broken in battle, it quickly remakes the cloak with materials nearby. 
Wormadam	413	Generation 4	Bug Grass 		Bagworm Pokemon		 Anticipation Overcoat  			1′8″ (0.51m) 		14.3 lbs (6.5 kg) 		Second stage
Diamond When BURMY evolved, its cloak became a part of this Pokémon’s body. The cloak is never shed. Pearl Its appearance changes depending on where it evolved. The materials on hand become a part of its body. Platinum When evolving, its body takes in surrounding materials. As a result, there are many body variations. HeartGold SoulSilver It is said that a WORMADAM that evolves on a cold day will have a thicker cloak. Black White Black 2 White 2 When evolving, its body takes in surrounding materials. As a result, there are many body variations. X Omega Ruby Its appearance changes depending on where it evolved. The materials on hand become a part of its body. Y Alpha Sapphire When Burmy evolved, its cloak became a part of this Pokémon’s body. The cloak is never shed. 
Mothim		414	Generation 4	Bug Flying 		Moth Pokemon		 Swarm Tinted Lens  			2′11″ (0.89m) 		51.4 lbs (23.3 kg) 		First stage
Diamond It loves the honey of flowers and steals honey collected by COMBEE. Pearl It does not keep a nest. It flies over fields and mountains in constant search of floral honey. Platinum While it loves floral honey, it won’t gather any itself. Instead, it plots to steal some from COMBEE. HeartGold SoulSilver It flutters around at night and steals honey from the COMBEE hive. Black White Black 2 White 2 While it loves floral honey, it won’t gather any itself. Instead, it plots to steal some from Combee. X Omega Ruby It loves the honey of flowers and steals honey collected by Combee. Y Alpha Sapphire It flutters around at night and steals honey from the Combee hive. 
Combee		415	Generation 4	Bug Flying 		Tiny Bee Pokemon	 Honey Gather Hustle  			1′0″ (0.30m) 		12.1 lbs (5.5 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond A Pokémon formed by three others. It busily carries sweet floral honey to VESPIQUEN. Pearl It collects and delivers honey to its colony. At night, they cluster to form a beehive and sleep. Platinum The trio is together from birth. It constantly gathers honey from flowers to please VESPIQUEN. HeartGold SoulSilver At night, COMBEE sleep in a group of about a thousand, packed closely together in a lump. Black White The trio is together from birth. It constantly gathers honey from flowers to please Vespiquen. Black 2 White 2 This Pokémon is a set of three. When they sleep, they gather up and form a giant hive of 100 Combee. X Omega Ruby The trio is together from birth. It constantly gathers honey from flowers to please Vespiquen. Y Alpha Sapphire It collects and delivers honey to its colony. At night, they cluster to form a beehive and sleep. 
Vespiquen	416	Generation 4	Bug Flying 		Beehive Pokemon		 Pressure Unnerve  			3′11″ (1.19m) 		84.9 lbs (38.5 kg) 		First stage
Diamond Its abdomen is a honeycomb for grubs. It raises its grubs on honey collected by COMBEE. Pearl When endangered, grubs from its six-cell honeycomb strike back. There is only one in a colony. Platinum It releases various pheromones to make the grubs in its body do its bidding while fighting foes. HeartGold SoulSilver It raises grubs in the holes in its body. It secretes pheromones to control COMBEE. Black White It releases various pheromones to make the grubs in its body do its bidding while fighting foes. Black 2 White 2 It houses its colony in cells in its body and releases various pheromones to make those grubs do its bidding. X Omega Ruby It houses its colony in cells in its body and releases various pheromones to make those grubs do its bidding. Y Alpha Sapphire Its abdomen is a honeycomb for grubs. It raises its grubs on honey collected by Combee. 
Pachirisu	417	Generation 4	Electric 		EleSquirrel Pokemon	 Pickup Run Away Volt Absorb  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		8.6 lbs (3.9 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Buizel		418	Generation 4	Water 			Sea Weasel Pokemon	 Swift Swim Water Veil  			2′4″ (0.71m) 		65 lbs (29.5 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond It has a flotation sac that is like an inflatable collar. It floats on water with its head out. Pearl It swims by rotating its two tails like a screw. When it dives, its flotation sac collapses. Platinum It spins its two tails like a screw to propel itself through water. The tails also slice clinging seaweed. HeartGold SoulSilver It inflates its flotation sac, keeping its face above water in order to watch for prey movement. Black White It spins its two tails like a screw to propel itself through water. The tails also slice clinging seaweed. Black 2 White 2 It inflates the flotation sac around its neck and pokes its head out of the water to see what is going on. X Omega Ruby It swims by rotating its two tails like a screw. When it dives, its flotation sac collapses. Y Alpha Sapphire It inflates the flotation sac around its neck and pokes its head out of the water to see what is going on. 
Floatzel	419	Generation 4	Water 			Sea Weasel Pokemon	 Swift Swim Water Veil  			3′7″ (1.09m) 		73.9 lbs (33.5 kg) 		First stage
Diamond It floats using its well-developed flotation sac. It assists in the rescues of drowning people. Pearl Its flotation sac developed as a result of pursuing aquatic prey. It can double as a rubber raft. Platinum It is a common sight around fishing ports. It is known to rescue people and carry off prey. HeartGold SoulSilver With its flotation sac inflated, it can carry people on its back. It deflates the sac before it dives. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is a common sight around fishing ports. It is known to rescue people and carry off prey. X Omega Ruby It floats using its well-developed flotation sac. It assists in the rescues of drowning people. Y Alpha Sapphire Its flotation sac developed as a result of pursuing aquatic prey. It can double as a rubber raft. 
Cherubi		420	Generation 4	Grass 			Cherry Pokemon		 Chlorophyll 				1′4″ (0.41m) 		7.3 lbs (3.3 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond The small ball holds the nutrients needed for evolution. Apparently, it is very sweet and tasty. Pearl Sunlight colors it red. When the small ball is drained of nutrients, it shrivels to herald evolution. Platinum The small ball is not only filled with nutrients, it is also tasty. STARLY try to peck it off. HeartGold SoulSilver It evolves by sucking the energy out of the small ball where it had been storing nutrients. Black White Black 2 White 2 The small ball is not only filled with nutrients, it is also tasty. Starly try to peck it off. X Omega Ruby Sunlight colors it red. When the small ball is drained of nutrients, it shrivels to herald evolution. Y Alpha Sapphire It evolves by sucking the energy out of the small ball where it had been storing nutrients. 
Cherrim		421	Generation 4	Grass 			Blossom Pokemon		 Flower Gift 				1′8″ (0.51m) 		20.5 lbs (9.3 kg) 		First stage
Diamond It blooms during times of strong sunlight. It tries to make up for everything it endured as a bud. Pearl It is docile as a bud, but turns cheerful when it blooms. It folds back into a bud if sunlight wanes. Platinum If it senses strong sunlight, it opens its folded petals to absorb the sun’s rays with its whole body. HeartGold SoulSilver During times of strong sunlight, its bud blooms, its petals open fully, and it becomes very active. Black White Black 2 White 2 If it senses strong sunlight, it opens its folded petals to absorb the sun’s rays with its whole body. X Omega Ruby During times of strong sunlight, its bud blooms, its petals open fully, and it becomes very active. Y Alpha Sapphire If it senses strong sunlight, it opens its folded petals to absorb the sun’s rays with its whole body. 
Shellos		422	Generation 4	Water 			Sea Slug Pokemon	 Sticky Hold Storm Drain Sand Force  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		13.9 lbs (6.3 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond Its colors and shapes differ from region to region. In the Sinnoh region, two types are confirmed. Pearl It lives along bodies of water. Its body shape has changed to suit its habitat. Platinum Beware of pushing strongly on its squishy body, as it makes a mysterious purple fluid ooze out. HeartGold SoulSilver Its shape and coloration vary, depending on its habitat. Black White Black 2 White 2 Beware of pushing strongly on its squishy body, as it makes a mysterious purple fluid ooze out. X Omega Ruby Beware of pushing strongly on its squishy body, as it makes a mysterious purple fluid ooze out. Y Alpha Sapphire Its shape and coloration vary, depending on its habitat. Sun For the most part, it makes its home along the seashore. Its color and form differ according to its habitat and the quality of its food. Moon Purple mucus sticks to the hands of anyone who touches it. Take care, as the substance is troublesome to wash off. 
Gastrodon	423	Generation 4	Water Ground 		Sea Slug Pokemon	 Sticky Hold Storm Drain Sand Force  	2′11″ (0.89m) 		65.9 lbs (29.9 kg) 		First stage
Diamond It has a pliable body without any bones. If any part of its body is torn off, it grows right back. Pearl It apparently had a huge shell for protection in ancient times. It lives in shallow tidal pools. Platinum Long ago, its entire back was shielded with a sturdy shell. There are traces of it left in its cells. HeartGold SoulSilver When its natural enemy attacks, it oozes purple fluid and escapes. Black White Black 2 White 2 Long ago, its entire back was shielded with a sturdy shell. There are traces of it left in its cells. X Omega Ruby When its natural enemy attacks, it oozes purple fluid and escapes. Y Alpha Sapphire It apparently had a huge shell for protection in ancient times. It lives in shallow tidal pools. Sun It has strong regenerative capabilities. Even if parts of it are bitten off by fish Pokémon, it will return to normal within a few hours. Moon Plankton, invisible to the naked eye, is its main food source. It comes onto the land periodically, but the reason for this is not known. 
Ambipom		424	Generation 4	Normal 			Long Tail Pokemon	 Pickup Technician Skill Link  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		44.8 lbs (20.3 kg) 		First stage
Diamond To eat, it deftly shucks nuts with its two tails. It rarely uses its arms now. Pearl They work in large colonies and make rings by linking their tails, apparently in friendship. Platinum Split into two, the tails are so adept at handling and doing things, AMBIPOM rarely uses its hands. HeartGold They live on large trees. They are said to communicate by connecting their tails to those of others. SoulSilver It is very difficult to dodge the consecutive strikes of its two tails. Black White Black 2 White 2 Split into two, the tails are so adept at handling and doing things, Ambipom rarely uses its hands. X Omega Ruby They work in large colonies and make rings by linking their tails, apparently in friendship. Y Alpha Sapphire To eat, it deftly shucks nuts with its two tails. It rarely uses its arms now. 
Drifloon	425	Generation 4	Ghost Flying 		Balloon Pokemon		 Aftermath Unburden Flare Boost  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		2.6 lbs (1.2 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond A Pokémon formed by the spirits of people and Pokémon. It loves damp, humid seasons. Pearl It tugs on the hands of children to steal them away. However, it gets pulled around instead. Platinum Because of the way it floats aimlessly, an old folktale calls it a “Signpost for Wandering Spirits.” HeartGold SoulSilver It is whispered that any child who mistakes DRIFLOON for a balloon and holds on to it could wind up missing. Black White Because of the way it floats aimlessly, an old folktale calls it a “Signpost for Wandering Spirits.” Black 2 White 2 These Pokémon are called the “Signpost for Wandering Spirits.” Children holding them sometimes vanish. X Omega Ruby A Pokémon formed by the spirits of people and Pokémon. It loves damp, humid seasons. Y Alpha Sapphire These Pokémon are called the “Signpost for Wandering Spirits.” Children holding them sometimes vanish. Sun Stories go that it grabs the hands of small children and drags them away to the afterlife. It dislikes heavy children. Moon If for some reason its body bursts, its soul spills out with a screaming sound. 
Drifblim	426	Generation 4	Ghost Flying 		Blimp Pokemon		 Aftermath Unburden Flare Boost  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		33.1 lbs (15.0 kg) 		First stage
Diamond It’s drowzy in daytime, but flies off in the evening in big groups. No one knows where they go. Pearl It carries people and Pokémon when it flies. But since it only drifts, it can end up anywhere. Platinum At dusk, swarms of them are carried aloft on winds. When noticed, they suddenly vanish. HeartGold SoulSilver It can generate and release gas within its body. That’s how it can control the altitude of its drift. Black White At dusk, swarms of them are carried aloft on winds. When noticed, they suddenly vanish. Black 2 White 2 They carry people and Pokémon, but the wind can catch them, so there can’t be a fixed destination. X Omega Ruby It carries people and Pokémon when it flies. But since it only drifts, it can end up anywhere. Y Alpha Sapphire It’s drowsy in daytime, but flies off in the evening in big groups. No one knows where they go. Sun There was once an incident in which a man took a trip riding a Drifblim, only to go missing. Moon Even while under careful observation, large flocks of Drifblim flying at dusk will inexplicably disappear from view. 
Buneary		427	Generation 4	Normal 			Rabbit Pokemon		 Klutz Run Away Limber  			1′4″ (0.41m) 		12.1 lbs (5.5 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond It slams foes by sharply uncoiling its rolled ears. It stings enough to make a grown-up cry in pain. Pearl When it senses danger, it perks up its ears. On cold nights, it sleeps with its head tucked into its fur. Platinum Its ears are always rolled up. They can be forcefully extended to shatter even a large boulder. HeartGold SoulSilver You can tell how it feels by the way it rolls its ears. When it’s scared, both ears are rolled up. Black White Its ears are always rolled up. They can be forcefully extended to shatter even a large boulder. Black 2 White 2 By extending its rolled-up ears and striking the ground, it can bound so high it surprises itself. X Omega Ruby Its ears are always rolled up. They can be forcefully extended to shatter even a large boulder. Y Alpha Sapphire When it senses danger, it perks up its ears. On cold nights, it sleeps with its head tucked into its fur. 
Lopunny		428	Generation 4	Normal 			Rabbit Pokemon		 Cute Charm Klutz Limber  		3′11″ (1.19m) 		73.4 lbs (33.3 kg) 		First stage
Diamond An extremely cautious Pokémon. It cloaks its body with its fluffy ear fur when it senses danger. Pearl It is very conscious of its looks and never fails to groom its ears. It runs with sprightly jumps. Platinum The ears appear to be delicate. If they are touched roughly, it kicks with its graceful legs. HeartGold SoulSilver It sheds its fur twice a year. Its winter fur is soft and fluffy. Black White The ears appear to be delicate. If they are touched roughly, it kicks with its graceful legs. Black 2 White 2 Extremely cautious, it quickly bounds off when it senses danger. X Omega Ruby Extremely cautious, it quickly bounds off when it senses danger. Y Alpha Sapphire The ears appear to be delicate. If they are touched roughly, it kicks with its graceful legs. 
Mismagius	429	Generation 4	Ghost 			Magical Pokemon		 Levitate 				2′11″ (0.89m) 		9.7 lbs (4.4 kg) 		First stage
Diamond Its cries sound like incantations. Those hearing it are tormented by headaches and hallucinations. Pearl It chants incantations. While they usually torment targets, some chants bring happiness. Platinum Its cry sounds like an incantation. It is said the cry may rarely be imbued with happiness-giving power. HeartGold SoulSilver Its cries sound like incantations to torment the foe. It appears where you least expect it. Black White Black 2 White 2 Its cry sounds like an incantation. It is said the cry may rarely be imbued with happiness-giving power. X Omega Ruby It chants incantations. While they usually torment targets, some chants bring happiness. Y Alpha Sapphire Its cries sound like incantations to torment the foe. It appears where you least expect it. Sun It appears as if from nowhere—muttering incantations, placing curses, and giving people terrifying visions. Moon Mismagius have been known to cast spells to make people fall in love, so some people search for this Pokémon as if their life depended on it. 
Honchkrow	430	Generation 4	Dark Flying 		Big Boss Pokemon	 Insomnia Super Luck Moxie  		2′11″ (0.89m) 		60.2 lbs (27.3 kg) 		First stage
Diamond Becoming active at night, it is known to swarm with numerous MURKROW in tow. Pearl It makes its MURKROW cronies bring it food. It idles its time away, grooming itself in its nest. Platinum If one utters a deep cry, many MURKROW gather quickly. For this, it is called “Summoner of Night.” HeartGold SoulSilver It is merciless by nature. It is said that it never forgives the mistakes of its MURKROW followers. Black White Black 2 White 2 If one utters a deep cry, many Murkrow gather quickly. For this, it is called “Summoner of Night.” X Omega Ruby If one utters a deep cry, many Murkrow gather quickly. For this, it is called “Summoner of Night.” Y Alpha Sapphire Becoming active at night, it is known to swarm with numerous Murkrow in tow. Sun A single cry from this nocturnal Pokémon, and more than a hundred of its Murkrow cronies will assemble. Moon If its Murkrow cronies fail to catch food for it, or if it feels they have betrayed it, it will hunt them down wherever they are and punish them. 
Glameow		431	Generation 4	Normal 			Catty Pokemon		 Limber Own Tempo Keen Eye  		1′8″ (0.51m) 		8.6 lbs (3.9 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond It claws if displeased and purrs when affectionate. Its fickleness is very popular among some. Pearl With its sharp glare, it puts foes in a mild hypnotic state. It is a very fickle Pokémon. Platinum It hides its spiteful tendency of hooking its claws into the nose of its Trainer if it isn’t fed. HeartGold SoulSilver When it’s happy, GLAMEOW demonstrates beautiful movements of its tail, like a dancing ribbon. Black White Black 2 White 2 It hides its spiteful tendency of hooking its claws into the nose of its Trainer if it isn’t fed. X Omega Ruby It claws if displeased and purrs when affectionate. Its fickleness is very popular among some. Y Alpha Sapphire When it’s happy, Glameow demonstrates beautiful movements of its tail, like a dancing ribbon. 
Purugly		432	Generation 4	Normal 			Tiger Cat Pokemon	 Own Tempo Thick Fat Defiant  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		96.6 lbs (43.8 kg) 		First stage
Diamond It is a brazen brute that barges its way into another Pokémon’s nest and claims it as its own. Pearl To make itself appear intimidatingly beefy, it tightly cinches its waist with its twin tails. Platinum It binds its body with its tails to make itself look bigger. If it locks eyes, it will glare ceaselessly. HeartGold SoulSilver It would claim another Pokémon’s nest as its own if it finds a nest sufficiently comfortable. Black White Black 2 White 2 It binds its body with its tails to make itself look bigger. If it locks eyes, it will glare ceaselessly. X Omega Ruby It would claim another Pokémon’s nest as its own if it finds a nest sufficiently comfortable. Y Alpha Sapphire To make itself appear intimidatingly beefy, it tightly cinches its waist with its twin tails. 
Chingling	433	Generation 4	Psychic 		Bell Pokemon		 Levitate 				0′8″ (0.20m) 		1.3 lbs (0.6 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond It emits cries by agitating an orb at the back of its throat. It moves with flouncing hops. Pearl Each time it hops, it makes a ringing sound. It deafens foes by emitting high-frequency cries. Platinum There is an orb inside its mouth. When it hops, the orb bounces all over and makes a ringing sound. HeartGold SoulSilver It emits high-frequency cries that people can’t hear. Once it starts, it can cry for an awfully long time. Black White Black 2 White 2 There is an orb inside its mouth. When it hops, the orb bounces all over and makes a ringing sound. X Omega Ruby Each time it hops, it makes a ringing sound. It deafens foes by emitting high-frequency cries. Y Alpha Sapphire There is an orb inside its mouth. When it hops, the orb bounces all over and makes a ringing sound. 
Stunky		434	Generation 4	Poison Dark 		Skunk Pokemon		 Aftermath Stench Keen Eye  		1′4″ (0.41m) 		42.3 lbs (19.2 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond It protects itself by spraying a noxious fluid from its rear. The stench lingers for 24 hours. Pearl It sprays a nose-curling, stinky fluid from its rear to repel attackers. Platinum It sprays a foul fluid from its rear. Its stench spreads over a mile radius, driving Pokémon away. HeartGold SoulSilver The foul fluid from its rear is so revolting that it can make people feel queasy up to a mile and a quarter away. Black White Black 2 White 2 It sprays a foul fluid from its rear. Its stench spreads over a mile radius, driving Pokémon away. X Omega Ruby It sprays a foul fluid from its rear. Its stench spreads over a mile radius, driving Pokémon away. Y Alpha Sapphire It protects itself by spraying a noxious fluid from its rear. The stench lingers for 24 hours. 
Skuntank	435	Generation 4	Poison Dark 		Skunk Pokemon		 Aftermath Stench Keen Eye  		3′3″ (0.99m) 		83.8 lbs (38.0 kg) 		First stage
Diamond It sprays a vile-smelling fluid from the tip of its tail to attack. Its range is over 160 feet. Pearl It sprays a stinky fluid from its tail. The fluid smells worse the longer it is allowed to fester. Platinum It attacks by spraying a horribly smelly fluid from the tip of its tail. Attacks from above confound it. HeartGold SoulSilver It attacks by spraying a repugnant fluid from its tail, but the stench dulls after a few squirts. Black White Black 2 White 2 It attacks by spraying a horribly smelly fluid from the tip of its tail. Attacks from above confound it. X Omega Ruby It sprays a vile-smelling fluid from the tip of its tail to attack. Its range is over 160 feet. Y Alpha Sapphire It sprays a stinky fluid from its tail. The fluid smells worse the longer it is allowed to fester. 
Bronzor		436	Generation 4	Steel Psychic 		Bronze Pokemon		 Heatproof Levitate Heavy Metal  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		133.4 lbs (60.5 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond Implements shaped like it were discovered in ancient tombs. It is unknown if they are related. Pearl X-ray photos were taken to check its body structure. Nothing appeared, however. Platinum There are researchers who believe this Pokémon reflected like a mirror in the distant past. HeartGold SoulSilver Ancient people believed that the pattern on BRONZOR’s back contained a mysterious power. Black White There are researchers who believe this Pokémon reflected like a mirror in the distant past. Black 2 White 2 They are found in ancient tombs. The patterns on their backs are said to be imbued with mysterious power. X Omega Ruby Ancient people believed that the pattern on Bronzor’s back contained a mysterious power. Y Alpha Sapphire Implements shaped like it were discovered in ancient tombs. It is unknown if they are related. 
Bronzong	437	Generation 4	Steel Psychic 		Bronze Bell Pokemon	 Heatproof Levitate Heavy Metal  	4′3″ (1.30m) 		412.3 lbs (187.0 kg) 		First stage
Diamond One caused a news sensation when it was dug up at a construction site after a 2,000-year sleep. Pearl It can summon rain clouds. People long ago revered it as the bringer of plentiful harvests. Platinum It brought rains by opening portals to another world. It was revered as a bringer of plentiful harvests. HeartGold SoulSilver Ancient people believed that petitioning BRONZONG for rain was the way to make crops grow. Black White It brought rains by opening portals to another world. It was revered as a bringer of plentiful harvests. Black 2 White 2 In ages past, this Pokémon was revered as a bringer of rain. It was found buried in the ground. X Omega Ruby In ages past, this Pokémon was revered as a bringer of rain. It was found buried in the ground. Y Alpha Sapphire Ancient people believed that petitioning Bronzong for rain was the way to make crops grow. 
Bonsly		438	Generation 4	Rock 			Bonsai Pokemon		 Rock Head Sturdy Rattled  		1′8″ (0.51m) 		33.1 lbs (15.0 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond It looks as if it is always crying. It is actually adjusting its body’s fluid levels by eliminating excess. Pearl It prefers arid environments. It leaks water from its eyes to adjust its body’s fluid levels. Platinum It prefers an arid atmosphere. It leaks water that looks like tears when adjusting its moisture level. HeartGold SoulSilver In order to adjust the level of fluids in its body, it exudes water from its eyes. This makes it appear to be crying. Black White Black 2 White 2 It prefers an arid atmosphere. It leaks water that looks like tears when adjusting its moisture level. X Omega Ruby It prefers arid environments. It leaks water from its eyes to adjust its body’s fluid levels. Y Alpha Sapphire It prefers an arid atmosphere. It leaks water that looks like tears when adjusting its moisture level. Sun It does not deal well with water, so it lives in dry locales. Since its surroundings tend to lack greenery, it stands out noticeably. Moon From its eyes, it can expel excess moisture from its body. This liquid is similar in composition to human sweat. 
Happiny		440	Generation 4	Normal 			Playhouse Pokemon	 Natural Cure Serene Grace Friend Guard  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		53.8 lbs (24.4 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond It loves round white things. It carries an egg-shaped rock in imitation of CHANSEY. Pearl It carries a round, egg-shaped rock in its belly pouch and gives the rock to its friends. Platinum It likes to carry around a small rock. It may wander around others’ feet and cause them to stumble. HeartGold SoulSilver It carefully carries a round, white rock that it thinks is an egg. It’s bothered by how curly its hair looks. Black White Black 2 White 2 It likes to carry around a small rock. It may wander around others’ feet and cause them to stumble. X Omega Ruby It carries a round, egg-shaped rock in its belly pouch and gives the rock to its friends. Y Alpha Sapphire It carefully carries a round, white rock that it thinks is an egg. It’s bothered by how curly its hair looks. Sun It carries a round white rock in its belly pouch. If it gets along well with someone, it will sometimes give that person the rock. Moon It’s too small to lay eggs yet. As a surrogate, it searches out round white stones. 
Chatot		441	Generation 4	Normal Flying 		Music Note Pokemon	 Keen Eye Tangled Feet Big Pecks  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		4.2 lbs (1.9 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Spiritomb	442	Generation 4	Ghost Dark 		Forbidden Pokemon	 Pressure Infiltrator  			3′3″ (0.99m) 		238.1 lbs (108.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Gible		443	Generation 4	Dragon Ground 		Land Shark Pokemon	 Sand Veil Rough Skin  			2′4″ (0.71m) 		45.2 lbs (20.5 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond It nests in small, horizontal holes in cave walls. It pounces to catch prey that stray too close. Pearl It once lived in the tropics. To avoid the cold, it lives in caves warmed by geothermal heat. Platinum It attacks using its huge mouth. While its attacks are powerful, it hurts itself out of clumsiness, too. HeartGold SoulSilver It nests in horizontal holes warmed by geothermal heat. Foes who get too close can expect to be pounced on and bitten. Black White Black 2 White 2 It attacks using its huge mouth. While its attacks are powerful, it hurts itself out of clumsiness, too. X Omega Ruby It nests in horizontal holes warmed by geothermal heat. Foes who get too close can expect to be pounced on and bitten. Y Alpha Sapphire It nests in small, horizontal holes in cave walls. It pounces to catch prey that stray too close. Sun It lives in caves warmed by geothermal heat. Even so, when the weather gets cold, it will huddle close with others of its kind. Moon It skulks in caves, and when prey or an enemy passes by, it leaps out and chomps them. The force of its attack sometimes chips its teeth. 
Gabite		444	Generation 4	Dragon Ground 		Cave Pokemon		 Sand Veil Rough Skin  			4′7″ (1.40m) 		123.5 lbs (56.0 kg) 		First stage
Diamond There is a long-held belief that medicine made from its scales will heal even incurable illnesses. Pearl It habitually digs up and hoards gems in its nest. Its loot is constantly targeted by thieves. Platinum It loves sparkly things. It seeks treasures in caves and hoards the loot in its nest. HeartGold SoulSilver As it digs to expand its nest, it habitually digs up gems that it then hoards in its nest. Black White Black 2 White 2 It loves sparkly things. It seeks treasures in caves and hoards the loot in its nest. X Omega Ruby It loves sparkly things. It seeks treasures in caves and hoards the loot in its nest. Y Alpha Sapphire As it digs to expand its nest, it habitually digs up gems that it then hoards in its nest. Sun In rare cases, it molts and sheds its scales. Medicine containing its scales as an ingredient will make a weary body feel invigorated. Moon Shiny objects are its passion. It can be found in its cave, scarcely moving, its gaze fixed on the jewels it’s amassed or Carbink it has caught. 
Garchomp	445	Generation 4	Dragon Ground 		Mach Pokemon		 Sand Veil Rough Skin  			6′3″ (1.91m) 		209.4 lbs (95.0 kg) 		Second stage
Diamond When it folds up its body and extends its wings, it looks like a jet plane. It flies at sonic speed. Pearl It flies at speeds equal to a jet fighter plane. It never allows its prey to escape. Platinum It is said that when one runs at high speed, its wings create blades of wind that can fell nearby trees. HeartGold SoulSilver Its body is covered in fine scales that reduce drag, enabling it to fly at high speeds. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is said that when one runs at high speed, its wings create blades of wind that can fell nearby trees. X Omega Ruby When it folds up its body and extends its wings, it looks like a jet plane. It flies at sonic speed. Y Alpha Sapphire It flies at speeds equal to a jet fighter plane. It never allows its prey to escape. Sun It can fly at speeds rivaling jet planes. It dives into flocks of bird Pokémon and gulps the entire flock down whole. Moon The protuberances on its head serve as sensors. It can even detect distant prey. 
Munchlax	446	Generation 4	Normal 			Big Eater Pokemon	 Pickup Thick Fat Gluttony  		2′0″ (0.61m) 		231.5 lbs (105.0 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond It wolfs down its weight in food once a day, swallowing food whole with almost no chewing. Pearl It hides food under its long body hair. However, it forgets it has hidden the food. Platinum In its desperation to gulp down food, it forgets about the food it has hidden under its fur. HeartGold SoulSilver It conceals food under the long fur on its body. It carts around this food stash and swallows it without chewing. Black White Black 2 White 2 In its desperation to gulp down food, it forgets about the food it has hidden under its fur. X Omega Ruby It hides food under its long body hair. However, it forgets it has hidden the food. Y Alpha Sapphire It conceals food under the long fur on its body. It carts around this food stash and swallows it without chewing. Sun It needs to consume its own weight in food every day. As far as flavor is concerned, it’s indifferent. Moon When it finds something that looks like it might be edible, it goes right ahead and swallows it whole. That’s why it gets fatter day by day. 
Riolu		447	Generation 4	Fighting 		Emanation Pokemon	 Inner Focus Steadfast Prankster  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		44.5 lbs (20.2 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond The aura that emanates from its body intensifies to alert others if it is afraid or sad. Pearl Its body is lithe yet powerful. It can crest three mountains and cross two canyons in one night. Platinum It has the peculiar power of being able to see emotions such as joy and rage in the form of waves. HeartGold SoulSilver They communicate with one another using their auras. They are able to run all through the night. Black White It has the peculiar power of being able to see emotions such as joy and rage in the form of waves. Black 2 White 2 It uses the shapes of auras, which change according to emotion, to communicate with others. X Omega Ruby It uses the shapes of auras, which change according to emotion, to communicate with others. Y Alpha Sapphire The aura that emanates from its body intensifies to alert others if it is afraid or sad. Sun It can discern the physical and emotional states of people, Pokémon, and other natural things from the shape of their aura waves. Moon It’s tough enough to run right through the night, and it’s also a hard worker, but it’s still just a youngster. 
Lucario		448	Generation 4	Fighting Steel 		Aura Pokemon		 Inner Focus Steadfast Justified  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		119 lbs (54.0 kg) 		First stage
Diamond It has the ability to sense the auras of all things. It understands human speech. Pearl By catching the aura emanating from others, it can read their thoughts and movements. Platinum A well-trained one can sense auras to identify and take in the feelings of creatures over half a mile away. HeartGold SoulSilver It’s said that no foe can remain invisible to LUCARIO, since it can detect auras. Even foes it could not otherwise see. Black White A well-trained one can sense auras to identify and take in the feelings of creatures over half a mile away. Black 2 White 2 By reading the auras of all things, it can tell how others are feeling from over half a mile away. X Omega Ruby By catching the aura emanating from others, it can read their thoughts and movements. Y Alpha Sapphire By reading the auras of all things, it can tell how others are feeling from over half a mile away. Sun Not only does it perceive auras, but it has also gained the power to control them. It employs them in battle. Moon They can detect the species of a living being— and its emotions—from over half a mile away. They control auras and hunt their prey in packs. 
Hippopotas	449	Generation 4	Ground 			Hippo Pokemon		 Sand Stream Sand Force  		2′7″ (0.79m) 		109.1 lbs (49.5 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond It lives in arid places. Instead of perspiration, it expels grainy sand from its body. Pearl It enshrouds itself with sand to protect itself from germs. It does not enjoy getting wet. Platinum It shuts its nostrils tight then travels through sand as if walking. They form colonies of around ten. HeartGold SoulSilver It shrouds itself in sand to ward off germs. It travels easily through the sands of the desert. Black White It shuts its nostrils tight then travels through sand as if walking. They form colonies of around ten. Black 2 White 2 It shuts its nostrils tight then travels through sand as if walking. They form colonies of around 10. X Omega Ruby It lives in arid places. Instead of perspiration, it expels grainy sand from its body. Y Alpha Sapphire It enshrouds itself with sand to protect itself from germs. It does not enjoy getting wet. 
Hippowdon	450	Generation 4	Ground 			Heavyweight Pokemon	 Sand Stream Sand Force  		6′7″ (2.01m) 		661.4 lbs (300.0 kg) 		First stage
Diamond It blasts internally stored sand from ports on its body to create a towering twister for attack. Pearl Its huge mouth is almost seven feet across. It has enough power to completely crush a car. Platinum It is surprisingly quick to anger. It holds its mouth agape as a display of its strength. HeartGold SoulSilver It brandishes its gaping mouth in a display of fearsome strength. It raises vast quantities of sand while attacking. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is surprisingly quick to anger. It holds its mouth agape as a display of its strength. X Omega Ruby It brandishes its gaping mouth in a display of fearsome strength. It raises vast quantities of sand while attacking. Y Alpha Sapphire It blasts internally stored sand from ports on its body to create a towering twister for attack. 
Skorupi		451	Generation 4	Poison Bug 		Scorpion Pokemon	 Battle Armor Sniper Keen Eye  	2′7″ (0.79m) 		26.5 lbs (12.0 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond It grips prey with its tail claws and injects poison. It tenaciously hangs on until the poison takes. Pearl It lives in arid lands. It buries itself in sand and lies in wait for unsuspecting prey. Platinum As soon as the tail claws close, its needle tips secrete poison. It can survive a year without food. HeartGold SoulSilver It burrows under the sand to lie in wait for prey. Its tail claws can inject its prey with a savage poison. Black White As soon as the tail claws close, its needle tips secrete poison. It can survive a year without food. Black 2 White 2 It lives in arid regions and can go without food for a year while waiting for prey. X Omega Ruby It grips prey with its tail claws and injects poison. It tenaciously hangs on until the poison takes. Y Alpha Sapphire It burrows under the sand to lie in wait for prey. Its tail claws can inject its prey with a savage poison. 
Drapion		452	Generation 4	Poison Dark 		Ogre Scorp Pokemon	 Battle Armor Sniper Keen Eye  	4′3″ (1.30m) 		135.6 lbs (61.5 kg) 		First stage
Diamond It has the power in its clawed arms to make scrap of a car. The tips of its claws release poison. Pearl Its body is encased in a sturdy shell. Its head rotates 180 degrees, eliminating blind spots. Platinum Possessing a sturdy build, it takes pride in its strength, taking down foes without using toxins. HeartGold SoulSilver It attacks people and Pokémon that cross the desert. This has only furthered its bad reputation. Black White Possessing a sturdy build, it takes pride in its strength, taking down foes without using toxins. Black 2 White 2 It takes pride in its strength. Even though it can tear foes apart, it finishes them off with powerful poison. X Omega Ruby It takes pride in its strength. Even though it can tear foes apart, it finishes them off with powerful poison. Y Alpha Sapphire It has the power in its clawed arms to make scrap of a car. The tips of its claws release poison. 
Croagunk	453	Generation 4	Poison Fighting 		Toxic Mouth Pokemon	 Anticipation Dry Skin Poison Touch  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		50.7 lbs (23.0 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond Its cheeks hold poison sacs. It tries to catch foes off guard to jab them with toxic fingers. Pearl Inflating its poison sacs, it makes an eerie blubbering sound for intimidation. Platinum It rarely fights fairly, but that is strictly to ensure survival. It is popular as a mascot. HeartGold Fluid squeezed from its finger, albeit poisonous, is a significant ingredient in remedies for lower-back pain. SoulSilver Fluid squeezed from its finger, albeit poisonous, is a significant ingredient in remedies for lower back pain. Black White It rarely fights fairly, but that is strictly to ensure survival. It is popular as a mascot. Black 2 White 2 Inflating its poison sacs, it fills the area with an odd sound and hits flinching opponents with a poison jab. X Omega Ruby Its cheeks hold poison sacs. It tries to catch foes off guard to jab them with toxic fingers. Y Alpha Sapphire Inflating its poison sacs, it fills the area with an odd sound and hits flinching opponents with a poison jab. 
Toxicroak	454	Generation 4	Poison Fighting 		Toxic Mouth Pokemon	 Anticipation Dry Skin Poison Touch  	4′3″ (1.30m) 		97.9 lbs (44.4 kg) 		First stage
Diamond Its knuckle claws secrete a toxin so vile that even a scratch could prove fatal. Pearl The toxin made in its poison sacs is pumped to the knuckle claws through tubes down its arms. Platinum It has a poison sac at its throat. When it croaks, the stored poison is churned for greater potency. HeartGold SoulSilver Swaying and dodging the attacks of its foes, it weaves its flexible body in close, then lunges out with its poisonous claws. Black White It has a poison sac at its throat. When it croaks, the stored poison is churned for greater potency. Black 2 White 2 The croaking that Toxicroak produces before a battle is for churning the poison it has stored in its poison sac. X Omega Ruby It has a poison sac at its throat. When it croaks, the stored poison is churned for greater potency. Y Alpha Sapphire Its knuckle claws secrete a toxin so vile that even a scratch could prove fatal. 
Carnivine	455	Generation 4	Grass 			Bug Catcher Pokemon	 Levitate 				4′7″ (1.40m) 		59.5 lbs (27.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Finneon		456	Generation 4	Water 			Wing Fish Pokemon	 Storm Drain Swift Swim Water Veil  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		15.4 lbs (7.0 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond After long exposure to sunlight, the patterns on its tail fins shine vividly when darkness arrives. Pearl The way its two tail fins flutter while it swims has earned it the nickname “BEAUTIFLY of the Sea.” Platinum The line running down its side can store sunlight. It shines vividly at night. HeartGold SoulSilver Swimming and fluttering its two tail fins, it looks like a BEAUTIFLY. At night, the patterns on its tail fins softly shine. Black White Black 2 White 2 The line running down its side can store sunlight. It shines vividly at night. X Omega Ruby The line running down its side can store sunlight. It shines vividly at night. Y Alpha Sapphire After long exposure to sunlight, the patterns on its tail fins shine vividly when darkness arrives. Sun It absorbs sunlight with the pink areas of its skin, which then shine. This appears to be a form of camouflage. Moon Its double tail fins propel its energetic jumps. When it breaks the surface of the sea, Wingull swoop down to grab it on the fly. 
Lumineon	457	Generation 4	Water 			Neon Pokemon		 Storm Drain Swift Swim Water Veil  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		52.9 lbs (24.0 kg) 		First stage
Diamond It lives on the deep-sea floor. It attracts prey by flashing the patterns on its four tail fins. Pearl To avoid detection by predators, it crawls along the seafloor using the two fins on its chest. Platinum It crawls along the seafloor using its long front fins like legs. It competes for food with LANTURN. HeartGold SoulSilver LUMINEON swimming in the darkness of the deep sea look like stars shining in the night sky. Black White Black 2 White 2 It crawls along the seafloor using its long front fins like legs. It competes for food with Lanturn. X Omega Ruby It lives on the deep-sea floor. It attracts prey by flashing the patterns on its four tail fins. Y Alpha Sapphire To avoid detection by predators, it crawls along the seafloor using the two fins on its chest. Sun With its shining light, it lures its prey close. However, the light also happens to attract ferocious fish Pokémon—its natural predators. Moon This deep-sea Pokémon lives at the bottom of the sea. Its fins haul it over the seabed in search of its favorite food—Starmie. 
Mantyke		458	Generation 4	Water Flying 		Kite Pokemon		 Swift Swim Water Absorb Water Veil  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		143.3 lbs (65.0 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond A friendly Pokémon that captures the subtle flows of seawater using its two antennae. Pearl Scientists discovered that the distinctive patterns on its back differ by region. Platinum People organize tours to see this Pokémon frolic and skim the tops of waves with REMORAID. HeartGold SoulSilver When it swims close to the surface of the ocean, people aboard ships are able to observe the pattern on its back. Black White People organize tours to see this Pokémon frolic and skim the tops of waves with Remoraid. Black 2 White 2 The pattern on its back varies by region. It often swims in a school of Remoraid. X Omega Ruby The pattern on its back varies by region. It often swims in a school of Remoraid. Y Alpha Sapphire When it swims close to the surface of the ocean, people aboard ships are able to observe the pattern on its back. 
Snover		459	Generation 4	Grass Ice 		Frost Tree Pokemon	 Snow Warning Soundproof  		3′3″ (0.99m) 		111.3 lbs (50.5 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond It lives on snowy mountains. Having had little contact with humans, it is boldly inquisitive. Pearl In the spring, it grows berries with the texture of frozen treats around its belly. Platinum Seemingly curious about people, they gather around footsteps they find on snowy mountains. HeartGold SoulSilver During cold seasons, it migrates to the mountain’s lower reaches. It returns to the snow-covered summit in the spring. Black White Black 2 White 2 Seemingly curious about people, they gather around footsteps they find on snowy mountains. X Omega Ruby During cold seasons, it migrates to the mountain’s lower reaches. It returns to the snow-covered summit in the spring. Y Alpha Sapphire In the spring, it grows berries with the texture of frozen treats around its belly. 
Abomasnow	460	Generation 4	Grass Ice 		Frost Tree Pokemon	 Snow Warning Soundproof  		7′3″ (2.21m) 		298.7 lbs (135.5 kg) 		First stage
Diamond It whips up blizzards in mountains that are always buried in snow. It is the abominable snowman. Pearl It blankets wide areas in snow by whipping up blizzards. It is also known as “The Ice Monster.” Platinum They appear when the snow flowers bloom. When the petals fall, they retreat to places unknown again. HeartGold SoulSilver It lives a quiet life on mountains that are perpetually covered in snow. It hides itself by whipping up blizzards. Black White Black 2 White 2 They appear when the snow flowers bloom. When the petals fall, they retreat to places unknown again. X Omega Ruby It blankets wide areas in snow by whipping up blizzards. It is also known as “The Ice Monster.” Y Alpha Sapphire It lives a quiet life on mountains that are perpetually covered in snow. It hides itself by whipping up blizzards. 
Weavile		461	Generation 4	Dark Ice 		Sharp Claw Pokemon	 Pressure Pickpocket  			3′7″ (1.09m) 		75 lbs (34.0 kg) 		First stage
Diamond They live in cold regions, forming groups of four or five that hunt prey with impressive coordination. Pearl It sends signals to others by carving odd patterns in frost-covered trees and ice. Platinum Evolution made it even more devious. It communicates by clawing signs in boulders. HeartGold SoulSilver It lives in snowy regions. It carves patterns in trees with its claws as a signal to others. Black White Evolution made it even more devious. It communicates by clawing signs in boulders. Black 2 White 2 They communicate by clawing signs in boulders and work together to surround enemies. X Omega Ruby It lives in snowy regions. It carves patterns in trees with its claws as a signal to others. Y Alpha Sapphire They live in cold regions, forming groups of four or five that hunt prey with impressive coordination. Sun They travel in groups of four or five, leaving signs for one another on trees and rocks. They bring down their prey with coordinated attacks. Moon They dwell in cold places. This Pokémon’s main food source in Alola is Vulpix and Sandshrew, which they carefully divide among their group. 
Magnezone	462	Generation 4	Electric Steel 		Magnet Area Pokemon	 Magnet Pull Sturdy Analytic  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		396.8 lbs (180.0 kg) 		Second stage
Diamond Pearl It evolved from exposure to a special magnetic field. Three units generate magnetism. Platinum A group tried to use scientific means to make MAGNEZONE evolve, but their efforts ended in failure. HeartGold SoulSilver Exposure to a special magnetic field changed MAGNETON’s molecular structure, turning it into MAGNEZONE. Black White A group tried to use scientific means to make Magnezone evolve, but their efforts ended in failure. Black 2 White 2 Sometimes the magnetism emitted by Magnezone is too strong, making them attract each other so they cannot move. X Omega Ruby Sometimes the magnetism emitted by Magnezone is too strong, making them attract each other so they cannot move. Y Alpha Sapphire It evolved from exposure to a special magnetic field. Three units generate magnetism. Sun Three units generate magnetism. There have been many mistaken reports of UFO sightings when Magnezone flies through the night sky. Moon As it zooms through the sky, this Pokémon seems to be receiving signals of unknown origin, while transmitting signals of unknown purpose. 
Lickilicky	463	Generation 4	Normal 			Licking Pokemon		 Oblivious Own Tempo Cloud Nine  	5′7″ (1.70m) 		308.6 lbs (140.0 kg) 		First stage
Diamond Pearl It wraps things with its extensible tongue. Getting too close to it will leave you soaked with drool. Platinum The long tongue is always soggy with slobber. The saliva contains a solvent that causes numbness. HeartGold Its saliva can decompose anything. It wraps its long tongue around things to coat them with its sticky saliva. SoulSilver It has space in its throat to store saliva. It can also roll up its tongue and store it in the same spot. Black White The long tongue is always soggy with slobber. The saliva contains a solvent that causes numbness. Black 2 White 2 Their saliva contains lots of components that can dissolve anything. The numbness caused by their lick does not dissipate. X Omega Ruby It wraps things with its extensible tongue. Getting too close to it will leave you soaked with drool. Y Alpha Sapphire Their saliva contains lots of components that can dissolve anything. The numbness caused by their lick does not dissipate. 
Rhyperior	464	Generation 4	Ground Rock 		Drill Pokemon		 Lightning Rod Solid Rock Reckless  	7′10″ (2.39m) 		623.5 lbs (282.8 kg) 		Second stage
Diamond Pearl It puts rocks in holes in its palms and uses its muscles to shoot them. GEODUDE are shot at rare times. Platinum It can launch a rock held in its hand like a missile by tightening then expanding muscles instantly. HeartGold SoulSilver From holes in its palms, it fires out GEODUDE. Its carapace can withstand volcanic eruptions. Black White Black 2 White 2 It can launch a rock held in its hand like a missile by tightening then expanding muscles instantly. X Omega Ruby From holes in its palms, it fires out Geodude. Its carapace can withstand volcanic eruptions. Y Alpha Sapphire It puts rocks in holes in its palms and uses its muscles to shoot them. Geodude are shot at rare times. 
Tangrowth	465	Generation 4	Grass 			Vine Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Leaf Guard Regenerator  	6′7″ (2.01m) 		283.5 lbs (128.6 kg) 		First stage
Diamond Pearl It ensnares prey by extending arms made of vines. Losing arms to predators does not trouble it. Platinum Its arms are made of plants that bind themselves to things. They grow back right away if cut. HeartGold When it remains still, it appears to be a large shrub. Unsuspecting prey that wander near get ensnared by its vines. SoulSilver Its vines grow so profusely that, in the warm season, you can’t even see its eyes. Black White Its arms are made of plants that bind themselves to things. They grow back right away if cut. Black 2 White 2 Even if one of its arms is eaten, it’s fine. The Pokémon regenerates quickly and will go right back to normal. X Omega Ruby It ensnares prey by extending arms made of vines. Losing arms to predators does not trouble it. Y Alpha Sapphire Its vines grow so profusely that, in the warm season, you can’t even see its eyes. 
Electivire	466	Generation 4	Electric 		Thunderbolt Pokemon	 Motor Drive Vital Spirit  		5′11″ (1.80m) 		305.6 lbs (138.6 kg) 		Second stage
Diamond Pearl It pushes the tips of its two tails against the foe, then lets loose with over 20,000 volts of power. Platinum Heedless of enemy attacks, it closes in, shoves its tails onto the foe, then looses high voltage. HeartGold SoulSilver As its electric charge amplifies, blue sparks begin to crackle between its horns. Black White Heedless of enemy attacks, it closes in, shoves its tails onto the foe, then looses high voltage. Black 2 White 2 The instant it presses the tips of its tails onto an opponent, it sends over 20,000 volts of electricity into the foe. X Omega Ruby As its electric charge amplifies, blue sparks begin to crackle between its horns. Y Alpha Sapphire It pushes the tips of its two tails against the foe, then lets loose with over 20,000 volts of power. Sun It pushes the tips of its tails against its foes and then lets loose a high-voltage current. Its foes are burned to a crisp in an instant. Moon When it gets excited, it thumps its chest. With every thud, thunder roars and electric sparks shower all around. 
Magmortar	467	Generation 4	Fire 			Blast Pokemon		 Flame Body Vital Spirit  		5′3″ (1.60m) 		149.9 lbs (68.0 kg) 		Second stage
Diamond Pearl It blasts fireballs of over 3,600 degrees F from the ends of its arms. It lives in volcanic craters. Platinum When launching 3,600 degrees F fireballs, its body takes on a whitish hue from the intense heat. HeartGold SoulSilver It blasts fireballs of over 3,600 degrees Fahrenheit out of its arms. Its breath also sears and sizzles. Black White When launching 3,600 degrees F fireballs, its body takes on a whitish hue from the intense heat. Black 2 White 2 When shooting 3,600 degree F fireballs from its arms, its body takes on a whitish hue from the intense heat. X Omega Ruby It blasts fireballs of over 3,600 degrees Fahrenheit from the ends of its arms. It lives in volcanic craters. Y Alpha Sapphire It blasts fireballs of over 3,600 degrees Fahrenheit out of its arms. Its breath also sears and sizzles. Sun They dwell in volcanic craters. According to what is known, a single pair of male and female Magmortar lives in one volcano. Moon From its arm, it launches fireballs hotter than 3,500 degrees Fahrenheit. Its arm starts to melt when it fires a whole barrage. 
Togekiss	468	Generation 4	Fairy Flying 		Jubilee Pokemon		 Hustle Serene Grace Super Luck  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		83.8 lbs (38.0 kg) 		Second stage
Diamond Pearl It will never appear where there is strife. Its sightings have become rare recently. Platinum It shares many blessings with people who respect one another’s rights and avoid needless strife. HeartGold SoulSilver As everyone knows, it visits peaceful regions, bringing them gifts of kindness and sweet blessings. Black White Black 2 White 2 It shares many blessings with people who respect one another’s rights and avoid needless strife. X Omega Ruby As everyone knows, it visits peaceful regions, bringing them gifts of kindness and sweet blessings. Y Alpha Sapphire It shares many blessings with people who respect one another’s rights and avoid needless strife. 
Yanmega		469	Generation 4	Bug Flying 		Ogre Darner Pokemon	 Speed Boost Tinted Lens Frisk  	6′3″ (1.91m) 		113.5 lbs (51.5 kg) 		First stage
Diamond Pearl By churning its wings, it creates shock waves that inflict critical internal injuries to foes. Platinum Its jaw power is incredible. It is adept at biting apart foes while flying by at high speed. HeartGold This six-legged Pokémon is easily capable of transporting an adult in flight. The wings on its tail help it stay balanced. SoulSilver The beat of its wings is so powerful that it accidentally dislodges full-grown trees when it takes off in flight. Black White Its jaw power is incredible. It is adept at biting apart foes while flying by at high speed. Black 2 White 2 It prefers to battle by biting apart foes’ heads instantly while flying by at high speed. X Omega Ruby It prefers to battle by biting apart foes’ heads instantly while flying by at high speed. Y Alpha Sapphire This six-legged Pokémon is easily capable of transporting an adult in flight. The wings on its tail help it stay balanced. 
Leafeon		470	Generation 4	Grass 			Verdant Pokemon		 Leaf Guard Chlorophyll  		3′3″ (0.99m) 		56.2 lbs (25.5 kg) 		Second stage
Diamond Pearl Just like a plant, it uses photosynthesis. As a result, it is always enveloped in clear air. Platinum It basically does not fight. With cells similar to those of plants, it can perform photosynthesis. HeartGold SoulSilver When you see LEAFEON asleep in a patch of sunshine, you’ll know it is using photosynthesis to produce clean air. Black White It basically does not fight. With cells similar to those of plants, it can perform photosynthesis. Black 2 White 2 With cells similar to those of plants, it performs photosynthesis inside its body and creates pure air. X Omega Ruby When you see Leafeon asleep in a patch of sunshine, you’ll know it is using photosynthesis to produce clean air. Y Alpha Sapphire Just like a plant, it uses photosynthesis. As a result, it is always enveloped in clear air. Sun Its cellular composition is closer to that of a plant than an animal. It uses photosynthesis to produce its energy supply without eating food. Moon The younger they are, the more they smell like fresh grass. With age, their fragrance takes on the odor of fallen leaves. 
Glaceon		471	Generation 4	Ice 			Fresh Snow Pokemon	 Snow Cloak Ice Body  			2′7″ (0.79m) 		57.1 lbs (25.9 kg) 		Second stage
Diamond Pearl As a protective technique, it can completely freeze its fur to make its hairs stand like needles. Platinum By controlling its body heat, it can freeze the atmosphere around it to make a diamond-dust flurry. HeartGold SoulSilver It causes small ice crystals to form by lowering the temperature of the surrounding atmosphere. Black White By controlling its body heat, it can freeze the atmosphere around it to make a diamond-dust flurry. Black 2 White 2 It lowers its body heat to freeze its fur. The hairs then become like needles it can fire. X Omega Ruby By controlling its body heat, it can freeze the atmosphere around it to make a diamond-dust flurry. Y Alpha Sapphire It lowers its body heat to freeze its fur. The hairs then become like needles it can fire. Sun It can control its body temperature at will. This enables it to freeze the moisture in the atmosphere, creating flurries of diamond dust. Moon It freezes its fur into icicles, spiky and sharp, and tackles its prey. 
Gliscor		472	Generation 4	Ground Flying 		Fang Scorp Pokemon	 Hyper Cutter Sand Veil Poison Heal  	6′7″ (2.01m) 		93.7 lbs (42.5 kg) 		First stage
Diamond Pearl It observes prey while hanging inverted from branches. When the chance presents itself, it swoops! Platinum If it succeeds in catching even a faint breeze properly, it can circle the globe without flapping once. HeartGold SoulSilver Its flight is soundless. It uses its lengthy tail to carry off its prey... Then its elongated fangs do the rest. Black White If it succeeds in catching even a faint breeze properly, it can circle the globe without flapping once. Black 2 White 2 It dances silently through the sky. When it approaches prey, it can land a critical hit in an instant. X Omega Ruby It observes prey while hanging inverted from branches. When the chance presents itself, it swoops! Y Alpha Sapphire Its flight is soundless. It uses its lengthy tail to carry off its prey... Then its elongated fangs do the rest. 
Mamoswine	473	Generation 4	Ice Ground 		Twin Tusk Pokemon	 Oblivious Snow Cloak Thick Fat  	8′2″ (2.49m) 		641.5 lbs (291.0 kg) 		Second stage
Diamond Pearl Its impressive tusks are made of ice. The population thinned when it turned warm after the ice age. Platinum A frozen one was dug up from soil dating back 10,000 years. It woke up to much amazement. HeartGold A frozen MAMOSWINE was dug from ice dating back 10,000 years. This Pokémon has been around a long, long, long time. SoulSilver It flourished worldwide during the ice age but its population declined when the masses of ice began to dwindle. Black White A frozen one was dug up from soil dating back 10,000 years. It woke up to much amazement. Black 2 White 2 When the temperature rose at the end of the ice age, most Mamoswine disappeared. X Omega Ruby A frozen Mamoswine was dug from ice dating back 10,000 years. This Pokémon has been around a long, long, long time. Y Alpha Sapphire Its impressive tusks are made of ice. The population thinned when it turned warm after the ice age. 
Porygon-Z	474	Generation 4	Normal 			Virtual Pokemon		 Adaptability Download Analytic  	2′11″ (0.89m) 		75 lbs (34.0 kg) 		Second stage
Diamond Pearl Additional software was installed to make it a better Pokémon. It began acting oddly, however. Platinum Its programming was modified to enable work in alien dimensions. It did not work as planned. HeartGold SoulSilver Its programming was modified to enable it to travel through alien dimensions. Seems there might have been an error... Black White Black 2 White 2 Its programming was modified to enable work in alien dimensions. It did not work as planned. X Omega Ruby Additional software was installed to make it a better Pokémon. It began acting oddly, however. Y Alpha Sapphire Its programming was modified to enable it to travel through alien dimensions. Seems there might have been an error... Sun In order to create a more advanced Pokémon, an additional program was installed, but apparently it contained a defect that makes it move oddly. Moon Its program was modified to facilitate extra-dimensional activities, but that led to noticeably strange behavior. 
Gallade		475	Generation 4	Psychic Fighting 		Blade Pokemon		 Steadfast Justified  			5′3″ (1.60m) 		114.6 lbs (52.0 kg) 		First stage
Diamond Pearl A master of courtesy and swordsmanship, it fights using extending swords on its elbows. Platinum When trying to protect someone, it extends its elbows as if they were swords and fights savagely. HeartGold SoulSilver Because it can sense what its foe is thinking, its attacks burst out first, fast, and fierce. Black White Black 2 White 2 When trying to protect someone, it extends its elbows as if they were swords and fights savagely. X Omega Ruby Because it can sense what its foe is thinking, its attacks burst out first, fast, and fierce. Y Alpha Sapphire A master of courtesy and swordsmanship, it fights using extending swords on its elbows. 
Probopass	476	Generation 4	Rock Steel 		Compass Pokemon		 Magnet Pull Sturdy Sand Force  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		749.6 lbs (340.0 kg) 		First stage
Diamond Pearl It exudes strong magnetism from all over. It controls three small units called Mini-Noses. Platinum It freely controls three small units called Mini-Noses using magnetic force. HeartGold SoulSilver It controls three units called Mini-Noses using magnetic force. With them, it can attack the foe from three directions. Black White It freely controls three small units called Mini-Noses using magnetic force. Black 2 White 2 It freely controls three units called Mini-Noses using magnetic force. X Omega Ruby It exudes strong magnetism from all over. It controls three small units called Mini-Noses. Y Alpha Sapphire It freely controls three small units called Mini-Noses using magnetic force. Sun It radiates such a powerful magnetic field that nearby electrical appliances become unusable. Moon The main body controls three mobile units called Mini-Noses, which it maneuvers to catch prey. 
Dusknoir	477	Generation 4	Ghost 			Gripper Pokemon		 Pressure Frisk  			7′3″ (2.21m) 		235 lbs (106.6 kg) 		Second stage
Diamond Pearl The antenna on its head captures radio waves from the world of spirits that command it to take people there. Platinum It is said to take lost spirits into its pliant body and guide them home. HeartGold SoulSilver This feared Pokémon is said to travel to worlds unknown. Some even believe that it takes lost spirits along with it. Black White Black 2 White 2 It is said to take lost spirits into its pliant body and guide them home. X Omega Ruby It is said to take lost spirits into its pliant body and guide them home. Y Alpha Sapphire The antenna on its head captures radio waves from the world of spirits that command it to take people there. 
Froslass	478	Generation 4	Ice Ghost 		Snow Land Pokemon	 Snow Cloak Cursed Body  		4′3″ (1.30m) 		58.6 lbs (26.6 kg) 		Basic form
Diamond Pearl It freezes foes with an icy breath nearly -60 degrees F. What seems to be its body is actually hollow. Platinum It freezes prey by blowing its -58 degrees F breath. It is said to then secretly display its prey. HeartGold Legends in snowy regions say that a woman who was lost on an icy mountain was reborn as FROSLASS. SoulSilver Legends in snowy regions say that a woman who was lost on an icy mountain was reborn as FROSLASS Black White Black 2 White 2 It freezes prey by blowing its -58 degrees F breath. It is said to then secretly display its prey. X Omega Ruby It freezes foes with an icy breath nearly -60 degrees Fahrenheit. What seems to be its body is actually hollow. Y Alpha Sapphire Legends in snowy regions say that a woman who was lost on an icy mountain was reborn as Froslass. Sun When it finds humans or Pokémon it likes, it freezes them and takes them to its chilly den, where they become decorations. Moon The soul of a woman lost on a snowy mountain possessed an icicle, becoming this Pokémon. The food it most relishes is the souls of men. 
Rotom		479	Generation 4	Electric Ghost 		Plasma Pokemon		 Levitate 				1′0″ (0.30m) 		0.7 lbs (0.3 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Uxie		480	Generation 4	Psychic 		Knowledge Pokemon	 Levitate 				1′0″ (0.30m) 		0.7 lbs (0.3 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Mesprit		481	Generation 4	Psychic 		Emotion Pokemon		 Levitate 				1′0″ (0.30m) 		0.7 lbs (0.3 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Azelf		482	Generation 4	Psychic 		Willpower Pokemon	 Levitate 				1′0″ (0.30m) 		0.7 lbs (0.3 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Dialga		483	Generation 4	Steel Dragon 		Temporal Pokemon	 Pressure Telepathy  			17′9″ (5.41m) 		1505.8 lbs (683.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Palkia		484	Generation 4	Water Dragon 		Spatial Pokemon		 Pressure Telepathy  			13′9″ (4.19m) 		740.8 lbs (336.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Heatran		485	Generation 4	Fire Steel 		Lava Dome Pokemon	 Flash Fire Flame Body  			5′7″ (1.70m) 		948 lbs (430.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Regigigas	486	Generation 4	Normal 			Colossal Pokemon	 Slow Start 				12′2″ (3.71m) 		925.9 lbs (420.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Giratina	487	Generation 4	Ghost Dragon 		Renegade Pokemon	 Pressure Telepathy  			14′9″ (4.50m) 		1653.5 lbs (750.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Cresselia	488	Generation 4	Psychic 		Lunar Pokemon		 Levitate 				4′11″ (1.50m) 		188.7 lbs (85.6 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Phione		489	Generation 4	Water 			Sea Drifter Pokemon	 Hydration 				1′4″ (0.41m) 		6.8 lbs (3.1 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Manaphy		490	Generation 4	Water 			Seafaring Pokemon	 Hydration 				1′0″ (0.30m) 		3.1 lbs (1.4 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Darkrai		491	Generation 4	Dark 			Pitch-Black Pokemon	 Bad Dreams 				4′11″ (1.50m) 		111.3 lbs (50.5 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Shaymin		492	Generation 4	Grass 			Gratitude Pokemon	 Natural Cure 				0′8″ (0.20m) 		4.6 lbs (2.1 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Arceus		493	Generation 4	Normal 			Alpha Pokemon		 Multitype 				10′6″ (3.20m) 		705.5 lbs (320.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Victini		494	Generation 5	Psychic Fire 		Victory Pokemon		 Victory Star 				1′4″ (0.41m) 		8.8 lbs (4.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Snivy		495	Generation 5	Grass 			Grass Snake Pokemon	 Overgrow Contrary  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		17.9 lbs (8.1 kg) 		Basic form
Black It is very intelligent and calm. Being exposed to lots of sunlight makes its movements swifter. White They photosynthesize by bathing their tails in sunlight. When they are not feeling well, their tails droop. Black 2 White 2 Being exposed to sunlight makes its movements swifter. It uses vines more adeptly than its hands. X Omega Ruby Being exposed to sunlight makes its movements swifter. It uses vines more adeptly than its hands. Y Alpha Sapphire They photosynthesize by bathing their tails in sunlight. When they are not feeling well, their tails droop. 
Servine		496	Generation 5	Grass 			Grass Snake Pokemon	 Overgrow Contrary  			2′7″ (0.79m) 		35.3 lbs (16.0 kg) 		First stage
Black It moves along the ground as if sliding. Its swift movements befuddle its foes, and it then attacks with a vine whip. White They avoid attacks by sinking into the shadows of thick foliage. They retaliate with masterful whipping techniques. Black 2 White 2 When it gets dirty, its leaves can’t be used in photosynthesis, so it always keeps itself clean. X Omega Ruby It moves along the ground as if sliding. Its swift movements befuddle its foes, and it then attacks with a vine whip. Y Alpha Sapphire When it gets dirty, its leaves can’t be used in photosynthesis, so it always keeps itself clean. 
Serperior	497	Generation 5	Grass 			Regal Pokemon		 Overgrow Contrary  			10′10″ (3.30m) 		138.9 lbs (63.0 kg) 		Second stage
Black It can stop its opponents’ movements with just a glare. It takes in solar energy and boosts it internally. White They raise their heads to intimidate opponents but only give it their all when fighting a powerful opponent. Black 2 White 2 It only gives its all against strong opponents who are not fazed by the glare from Serperior’s noble eyes. X Omega Ruby It only gives its all against strong opponents who are not fazed by the glare from Serperior’s noble eyes. Y Alpha Sapphire It can stop its opponents’ movements with just a glare. It takes in solar energy and boosts it internally. 
Tepig		498	Generation 5	Fire 			Fire Pig Pokemon	 Blaze Thick Fat  			1′8″ (0.51m) 		21.8 lbs (9.9 kg) 		Basic form
Black It can deftly dodge its foe’s attacks while shooting fireballs from its nose. It roasts berries before it eats them. White It blows fire through its nose. When it catches a cold, the fire becomes pitch-black smoke instead. Black 2 White 2 It loves to eat roasted berries, but sometimes it gets too excited and burns them to a crisp. X Omega Ruby It can deftly dodge its foe’s attacks while shooting fireballs from its nose. It roasts berries before it eats them. Y Alpha Sapphire It loves to eat roasted berries, but sometimes it gets too excited and burns them to a crisp. 
Pignite		499	Generation 5	Fire Fighting 		Fire Pig Pokemon	 Blaze Thick Fat  			3′3″ (0.99m) 		122.4 lbs (55.5 kg) 		First stage
Black When its internal fire flares up, its movements grow sharper and faster. When in trouble, it emits smoke. White Whatever it eats becomes fuel for the flame in its stomach. When it is angered, the intensity of the flame increases. Black 2 White 2 The more it eats, the more fuel it has to make the fire in its stomach stronger. This fills it with even more power. X Omega Ruby The more it eats, the more fuel it has to make the fire in its stomach stronger. This fills it with even more power. Y Alpha Sapphire When its internal fire flares up, its movements grow sharper and faster. When in trouble, it emits smoke. 
Emboar		500	Generation 5	Fire Fighting 		Mega Fire Pig Pokemon Blaze Reckless  			5′3″ (1.60m) 		330.7 lbs (150.0 kg) 		Second stage
Black It can throw a fire punch by setting its fists on fire with its fiery chin. It cares deeply about its friends. White It has mastered fast and powerful fighting moves. It grows a beard of fire. Black 2 White 2 A flaring beard of fire is proof that it is fired up. It is adept at using many different moves. X Omega Ruby It can throw a fire punch by setting its fists on fire with its fiery chin. It cares deeply about its friends. Y Alpha Sapphire It has mastered fast and powerful fighting moves. It grows a beard of fire. 
Oshawott	501	Generation 5	Water 			Sea Otter Pokemon	 Torrent Shell Armor  			1′8″ (0.51m) 		13 lbs (5.9 kg) 		Basic form
Black It fights using the scalchop on its stomach. In response to an attack, it retaliates immediately by slashing. White The scalchop on its stomach is made from the same elements as claws. It detaches the scalchop for use as a blade. Black 2 White 2 The scalchop on its stomach isn’t just used for battle--it can be used to break open hard berries as well. X The scalchop on its stomach isn’t just used for battle--it can be used to break open hard berries as well. Y Alpha Sapphire It fights using the scalchop on its stomach. In response to an attack, it retaliates immediately by slashing. Omega Ruby The scalchop on its stomach isn’t just used for battle—it can be used to break open hard berries as well. 
Dewott		502	Generation 5	Water 			Discipline Pokemon	 Torrent Shell Armor  			2′7″ (0.79m) 		54 lbs (24.5 kg) 		First stage
Black Strict training is how it learns its flowing double-scalchop technique. White Scalchop techniques differ from one Dewott to another. It never neglects maintaining its scalchops. Black 2 White 2 As a result of strict training, each Dewott learns different forms for using the scalchops. X Omega Ruby Strict training is how it learns its flowing double-scalchop technique. Y Alpha Sapphire As a result of strict training, each Dewott learns different forms for using the scalchops. 
Samurott	503	Generation 5	Water 			Formidable Pokemon	 Torrent Shell Armor  			4′11″ (1.50m) 		208.6 lbs (94.6 kg) 		Second stage
Black One swing of the sword incorporated in its armor can fell an opponent. A simple glare from one of them quiets everybody. White Part of the armor on its anterior legs becomes a giant sword. Its cry alone is enough to intimidate most enemies. Black 2 White 2 In the time it takes a foe to blink, it can draw and sheathe the seamitars attached to its front legs. X Omega Ruby In the time it takes a foe to blink, it can draw and sheathe the seamitars attached to its front legs. Y Alpha Sapphire One swing of the sword incorporated in its armor can fell an opponent. A simple glare from one of them quiets everybody. 
Patrat		504	Generation 5	Normal 			Scout Pokemon		 Keen Eye Run Away Analytic  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		25.6 lbs (11.6 kg) 		Basic form
Black Using food stored in cheek pouches, they can keep watch for days. They use their tails to communicate with others. White Extremely cautious, they take shifts to maintain a constant watch of their nest. They feel insecure without a lookout. Black 2 White 2 Extremely cautious, one of them will always be on the lookout, but it won’t notice a foe coming from behind. X Omega Ruby Using food stored in cheek pouches, they can keep watch for days. They use their tails to communicate with others. Y Alpha Sapphire Extremely cautious, one of them will always be on the lookout, but it won’t notice a foe coming from behind. 
Watchog		505	Generation 5	Normal 			Lookout Pokemon		 Illuminate Keen Eye Analytic  	3′7″ (1.09m) 		59.5 lbs (27.0 kg) 		First stage
Black When they see an enemy, their tails stand high, and they spit the seeds of berries stored in their cheek pouches. White They make the patterns on their bodies shine in order to threaten predators. Keen eyesight lets them see in the dark. Black 2 White 2 Using luminescent matter, it makes its eyes and body glow and stuns attacking opponents. X Omega Ruby Using luminescent matter, it makes its eyes and body glow and stuns attacking opponents. Y Alpha Sapphire When they see an enemy, their tails stand high, and they spit the seeds of berries stored in their cheek pouches. 
Lillipup	506	Generation 5	Normal 			Puppy Pokemon		 Pickup Vital Spirit Run Away  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		9 lbs (4.1 kg) 		Basic form
Black It faces strong opponents with great courage. But, when at a disadvantage in a fight, this intelligent Pokémon flees. White The long hair around its face provides an amazing radar that lets it sense subtle changes in its surroundings. Black 2 White 2 Though it is a very brave Pokémon, it’s also smart enough to check its foe’s strength and avoid battle. X Omega Ruby The long hair around its face provides an amazing radar that lets it sense subtle changes in its surroundings. Y Alpha Sapphire Though it is a very brave Pokémon, it’s also smart enough to check its foe’s strength and avoid battle. Sun Because it doesn’t yelp, it’s extremely popular with Trainers who live in apartment buildings. Moon The long fur surrounding its face functions as radar, enabling it to probe the condition of its battle opponents. 
Herdier		507	Generation 5	Normal 			Loyal Dog Pokemon	 Intimidate Sand Rush Scrappy  	2′11″ (0.89m) 		32.4 lbs (14.7 kg) 		First stage
Black It has black, cape-like fur that is very hard and decreases the amount of damage it receives. White It loyally follows its Trainer’s orders. For ages, they have helped Trainers raise Pokémon. Black 2 White 2 This very loyal Pokémon helps Trainers, and it also takes care of other Pokémon. X Omega Ruby This very loyal Pokémon helps Trainers, and it also takes care of other Pokémon. Y Alpha Sapphire It has black, cape-like fur that is very hard and decreases the amount of damage it receives. Sun Its dense black fur grows continuously. The high cost of keeping its hard fur properly groomed makes this a troublesome Pokémon to train. Moon This Pokémon obeys its master’s orders faithfully. However, it refuses to listen to anything said by a person it doesn’t respect. 
Stoutland	508	Generation 5	Normal 			Big-Hearted Pokemon	 Intimidate Sand Rush Scrappy  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		134.5 lbs (61.0 kg) 		Second stage
Black It rescues people stranded by blizzards in the mountains. Its shaggy fur shields it from the cold. White This extremely wise Pokémon excels at rescuing people stranded at sea or in the mountains. Black 2 White 2 Being wrapped in its long fur is so comfortable that a person would be fine even overnight on a wintry mountain. X Omega Ruby It rescues people stranded by blizzards in the mountains. Its shaggy fur shields it from the cold. Y Alpha Sapphire Being wrapped in its long fur is so comfortable that a person would be fine even overnight on a wintry mountain. Sun Intelligent, good-natured, and valiant, it’s a trustworthy partner on rescue teams. Moon With this wise Pokémon, there could be no concern that it would ever attack people. Some parents even trust it to babysit. 
Purrloin	509	Generation 5	Dark 			Devious Pokemon		 Limber Unburden Prankster  		1′4″ (0.41m) 		22.3 lbs (10.1 kg) 		Basic form
Black They steal from people for fun, but their victims can’t help but forgive them. Their deceptively cute act is perfect. White Its cute act is a ruse. When victims let down their guard, they find their items taken. It attacks with sharp claws. Black 2 White 2 Their cute act is a ruse. They trick people and steal their valuables just to see the looks on their faces. X Omega Ruby Its cute act is a ruse. When victims let down their guard, they find their items taken. It attacks with sharp claws. Y Alpha Sapphire They steal from people for fun, but their victims can’t help but forgive them. Their deceptively cute act is perfect. 
Liepard		510	Generation 5	Dark 			Cruel Pokemon		 Limber Unburden Prankster  		3′7″ (1.09m) 		82.7 lbs (37.5 kg) 		First stage
Black These Pokémon vanish and appear unexpectedly. Many Trainers are drawn to their beautiful form and fur. White Stealthily, it sneaks up on its target, striking from behind before its victim has a chance to react. Black 2 White 2 Their beautiful form comes from the muscles they have developed. They run silently in the night. X Omega Ruby Their beautiful form comes from the muscles they have developed. They run silently in the night. Y Alpha Sapphire Stealthily, it sneaks up on its target, striking from behind before its victim has a chance to react. 
Pansage		511	Generation 5	Grass 			Grass Monkey Pokemon	 Gluttony Overgrow  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		23.1 lbs (10.5 kg) 		Basic form
Black This Pokémon dwells deep in the forest. Eating a leaf from its head whisks weariness away as if by magic. White It shares the leaf on its head with weary-looking Pokémon. These leaves are known to relieve stress. Black 2 White 2 It’s good at finding berries and gathers them from all over. It’s kind enough to share them with friends. X Omega Ruby It shares the leaf on its head with weary-looking Pokémon. These leaves are known to relieve stress. Y Alpha Sapphire It’s good at finding berries and gathers them from all over. It’s kind enough to share them with friends. 
Simisage	512	Generation 5	Grass 			Thorn Monkey Pokemon	 Gluttony Overgrow  			3′7″ (1.09m) 		67.2 lbs (30.5 kg) 		First stage
Black Ill tempered, it fights by swinging its barbed tail around wildly. The leaf growing on its head is very bitter. White It attacks enemies with strikes of its thorn-covered tail. This Pokémon is wild tempered. Black 2 White 2 It strikes its enemies with a thorn-covered tail. The leaf on its head is bitter. X Omega Ruby It attacks enemies with strikes of its thorn-covered tail. This Pokémon is wild tempered. Y Alpha Sapphire Ill tempered, it fights by swinging its barbed tail around wildly. The leaf growing on its head is very bitter. 
Pansear		513	Generation 5	Fire 			High Temp Pokemon	 Gluttony Blaze  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		24.3 lbs (11.0 kg) 		Basic form
Black When it is angered, the temperature of its head tuft reaches 600° F. It uses its tuft to roast berries. White This Pokémon lives in caves in volcanoes. The fire within the tuft on its head can reach 600° F. Black 2 White 2 Very intelligent, it roasts berries before eating them. It likes to help people. X Omega Ruby Very intelligent, it roasts berries before eating them. It likes to help people. Y Alpha Sapphire This Pokémon lives in caves in volcanoes. The fire within the tuft on its head can reach 600 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Simisear	514	Generation 5	Fire 			Ember Pokemon		 Gluttony Blaze  			3′3″ (0.99m) 		61.7 lbs (28.0 kg) 		First stage
Black It loves sweets because they become energy for the fire burning inside its body. White A flame burns inside its body. It scatters embers from its head and tail to sear its opponents. Black 2 White 2 When it gets excited, embers rise from its head and tail and it gets hot. For some reason, it loves sweets. X Omega Ruby A flame burns inside its body. It scatters embers from its head and tail to sear its opponents. Y Alpha Sapphire When it gets excited, embers rise from its head and tail and it gets hot. For some reason, it loves sweets. 
Panpour		515	Generation 5	Water 			Spray Pokemon		 Gluttony Torrent  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		29.8 lbs (13.5 kg) 		Basic form
Black The water stored inside the tuft on its head is full of nutrients. Plants that receive its water grow large. White It does not thrive in dry environments. It keeps itself damp by shooting water stored in its head tuft from its tail. Black 2 White 2 The water stored inside the tuft on its head is full of nutrients. It waters plants with it using its tail. X Omega Ruby The water stored inside the tuft on its head is full of nutrients. It waters plants with it using its tail. Y Alpha Sapphire The water stored inside the tuft on its head is full of nutrients. Plants that receive its water grow large. 
Simipour	516	Generation 5	Water 			Geyser Pokemon		 Gluttony Torrent  			3′3″ (0.99m) 		63.9 lbs (29.0 kg) 		First stage
Black The tuft on its head holds water. When the level runs low, it replenishes the tuft by siphoning up water with its tail. White The high-pressure water expelled from its tail is so powerful, it can destroy a concrete wall. Black 2 White 2 It prefers places with clean water. When its tuft runs low, it replenishes it by siphoning up water with its tail. X Omega Ruby The high-pressure water expelled from its tail is so powerful, it can destroy a concrete wall. Y Alpha Sapphire It prefers places with clean water. When its tuft runs low, it replenishes it by siphoning up water with its tail. 
Munna		517	Generation 5	Psychic 		Dream Eater Pokemon	 Forewarn Synchronize Telepathy  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		51.4 lbs (23.3 kg) 		Basic form
Black Munna always float in the air. People whose dreams are eaten by them forget what the dreams had been about. White It eats the dreams of people and Pokémon. When it eats a pleasant dream, it expels pink-colored mist. Black 2 White 2 This Pokémon appears before people and Pokémon who are having nightmares and eats those dreams. X Omega Ruby This Pokémon appears before people and Pokémon who are having nightmares and eats those dreams. Y Alpha Sapphire It eats the dreams of people and Pokémon. When it eats a pleasant dream, it expels pink-colored mist. 
Musharna	518	Generation 5	Psychic 		Drowsing Pokemon	 Forewarn Synchronize Telepathy  	3′7″ (1.09m) 		133.4 lbs (60.5 kg) 		First stage
Black The mist emanating from their foreheads is packed with the dreams of people and Pokémon. White With the mist from its forehead, it can create shapes of things from dreams it has eaten. Black 2 White 2 The dream mist coming from its forehead changes into many different colors depending on the dream that was eaten. X Omega Ruby The mist emanating from their foreheads is packed with the dreams of people and Pokémon. Y Alpha Sapphire The dream mist coming from its forehead changes into many different colors depending on the dream that was eaten. 
Pidove		519	Generation 5	Normal Flying 		Tiny Pigeon Pokemon	 Big Pecks Super Luck Rivalry  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		4.6 lbs (2.1 kg) 		Basic form
Black Each follows its Trainer’s orders as best it can, but they sometimes fail to understand complicated commands. White These Pokémon live in cities. They are accustomed to people. Flocks often gather in parks and plazas. Black 2 White 2 This very forgetful Pokémon will wait for a new order from its Trainer even though it already has one. X Omega Ruby This very forgetful Pokémon will wait for a new order from its Trainer even though it already has one. Y Alpha Sapphire These Pokémon live in cities. They are accustomed to people. Flocks often gather in parks and plazas. 
Tranquill	520	Generation 5	Normal Flying 		Wild Pigeon Pokemon	 Big Pecks Super Luck Rivalry  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		33.1 lbs (15.0 kg) 		First stage
Black It can return to its Trainer’s location regardless of the distance separating them. White Many people believe that, deep in the forest where Tranquill live, there is a peaceful place where there is no war. Black 2 White 2 No matter where in the world it goes, it knows where its nest is, so it never gets separated from its Trainer. X Omega Ruby Many people believe that, deep in the forest where Tranquill live, there is a peaceful place where there is no war. Y Alpha Sapphire No matter where in the world it goes, it knows where its nest is, so it never gets separated from its Trainer. 
Unfezant	521	Generation 5	Normal Flying 		Proud Pokemon		 Big Pecks Super Luck Rivalry  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		63.9 lbs (29.0 kg) 		Second stage
Black Males swing their head plumage to threaten opponents. The females’ flying abilities surpass those of the males. White Males have plumage on their heads. They will never let themselves feel close to anyone other than their Trainers. Black 2 White 2 Males swing the plumage on their heads to threaten others, but females are better at flying. X Omega Ruby Males swing their head plumage to threaten opponents. The females’ flying abilities surpass those of the males. Y Alpha Sapphire Males have plumage on their heads. They will never let themselves feel close to anyone other than their Trainers. 
Blitzle		522	Generation 5	Electric 		Electrified Pokemon	 Lightning Rod Motor Drive Sap Sipper  	2′7″ (0.79m) 		65.7 lbs (29.8 kg) 		Basic form
Black Its mane shines when it discharges electricity. They use their flashing manes to communicate with one another. White When thunderclouds cover the sky, it will appear. It can catch lightning with its mane and store the electricity. Black 2 White 2 Its mane shines when it discharges electricity. They use the frequency and rhythm of these flashes to communicate. X Omega Ruby When thunderclouds cover the sky, it will appear. It can catch lightning with its mane and store the electricity. Y Alpha Sapphire Its mane shines when it discharges electricity. They use the frequency and rhythm of these flashes to communicate. 
Zebstrika	523	Generation 5	Electric 		Thunderbolt Pokemon	 Lightning Rod Motor Drive Sap Sipper  	5′3″ (1.60m) 		175.3 lbs (79.5 kg) 		First stage
Black They have lightning-like movements. When Zebstrika run at full speed, the sound of thunder reverberates. White This ill-tempered Pokémon is dangerous because when it’s angry, it shoots lightning from its mane in all directions. Black 2 White 2 When this ill-tempered Pokémon runs wild, it shoots lightning from its mane in all directions. X Omega Ruby When this ill-tempered Pokémon runs wild, it shoots lightning from its mane in all directions. Y Alpha Sapphire They have lightning-like movements. When Zebstrika run at full speed, the sound of thunder reverberates. 
Roggenrola	524	Generation 5	Rock 			Mantle Pokemon		 Sturdy Weak Armor Sand Force  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		39.7 lbs (18.0 kg) 		Basic form
Black Its ear is hexagonal in shape. Compressed underground, its body is as hard as steel. White They were discovered a hundred years ago in an earthquake fissure. Inside each one is an energy core. Black 2 White 2 The hexagonal-shaped hole is its ear. It has a tendency to walk in the direction the sound is coming from. X Omega Ruby Its ear is hexagonal in shape. Compressed underground, its body is as hard as steel. Y Alpha Sapphire They were discovered a hundred years ago in an earthquake fissure. Inside each one is an energy core. Sun Born deep within the ground, it compares itself with similar species, such as Geodude and Carbink, to settle which has the hardest body. Moon The hexagonal cavity is its ear. It walks in the direction of sounds it hears, but if the sounds cease, it panics and topples over. 
Boldore		525	Generation 5	Rock 			Ore Pokemon		 Sturdy Weak Armor Sand Force  	2′11″ (0.89m) 		224.9 lbs (102.0 kg) 		First stage
Black When it overflows with power, the orange crystal on its body glows. It looks for underground water in caves. White Because its energy was too great to be contained, the energy leaked and formed orange crystals. Black 2 White 2 When it is healthy, its core sticks out. Always facing the same way, it swiftly moves front to back and left to right. X Omega Ruby Because its energy was too great to be contained, the energy leaked and formed orange crystals. Y Alpha Sapphire When it is healthy, its core sticks out. Always facing the same way, it swiftly moves front to back and left to right. Sun Its orange crystal is a mass of energy. Just one crystal fragment would provide enough fuel for a hundred dump trucks. Moon It explores caves in search of underground water. It’s not comfortable around water, so this Pokémon takes great care in lapping it up. 
Gigalith	526	Generation 5	Rock 			Compressed Pokemon	 Sand Stream Sturdy Sand Force  	5′7″ (1.70m) 		573.2 lbs (260.0 kg) 		Second stage
Black Compressing the energy from its internal core lets it fire off an attack capable of blowing away a mountain. White The solar energy absorbed by its body’s orange crystals is magnified internally and fired from its mouth. Black 2 White 2 The solar rays it absorbs are processed in its energy core and fired as a ball of light. X Omega Ruby The solar rays it absorbs are processed in its energy core and fired as a ball of light. Y Alpha Sapphire Compressing the energy from its internal core lets it fire off an attack capable of blowing away a mountain. Sun The blasts of energy it makes from sunbeams have terrifying power. However, it’s not able to fire its blasts at night or on rainy days. Moon Known for its hefty horsepower, this Pokémon is a popular partner for construction workers. 
Woobat		527	Generation 5	Psychic Flying 		Bat Pokemon		 Klutz Unaware Simple  			1′4″ (0.41m) 		4.6 lbs (2.1 kg) 		Basic form
Black Its habitat is dark forests and caves. It emits ultrasonic waves from its nose to learn about its surroundings. White Suction from its nostrils enables it to stick to cave walls during sleep. It leaves a heart-shaped mark behind. Black 2 White 2 The heart-shaped mark left on a body after a Woobat has been attached to it is said to bring good fortune. X Omega Ruby Its habitat is dark forests and caves. It emits ultrasonic waves from its nose to learn about its surroundings. Y Alpha Sapphire The heart-shaped mark left on a body after a Woobat has been attached to it is said to bring good fortune. 
Swoobat		528	Generation 5	Psychic Flying 		Courting Pokemon	 Klutz Unaware Simple  			2′11″ (0.89m) 		23.1 lbs (10.5 kg) 		First stage
Black It emits sound waves of various frequencies from its nose, including some powerful enough to destroy rocks. White Anyone who comes into contact with the ultrasonic waves emitted by a courting male experiences a positive mood shift. Black 2 White 2 It shakes its tail vigorously when it emits ultrasonic waves strong enough to reduce concrete to rubble. X Omega Ruby It shakes its tail vigorously when it emits ultrasonic waves strong enough to reduce concrete to rubble. Y Alpha Sapphire Anyone who comes into contact with the ultrasonic waves emitted by a courting male experiences a positive mood shift. 
Drilbur		529	Generation 5	Ground 			Mole Pokemon		 Sand Force Sand Rush Mold Breaker  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		18.7 lbs (8.5 kg) 		Basic form
Black It can dig through the ground at a speed of 30 mph. It could give a car running aboveground a good race. White It makes its way swiftly through the soil by putting both claws together and rotating at high speed. Black 2 White 2 By spinning its body, it can dig straight through the ground at a speed of 30 mph. X Omega Ruby It makes its way swiftly through the soil by putting both claws together and rotating at high speed. Y Alpha Sapphire By spinning its body, it can dig straight through the ground at a speed of 30 mph. 
Excadrill	530	Generation 5	Ground Steel 		Subterrene Pokemon	 Sand Force Sand Rush Mold Breaker  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		89.1 lbs (40.4 kg) 		First stage
Black It can help in tunnel construction. Its drill has evolved into steel strong enough to bore through iron plates. White More than 300 feet below the surface, they build mazelike nests. Their activity can be destructive to subway tunnels. Black 2 White 2 Forming a drill with its steel claws and head, it can bore through a steel plate, no matter how thick it is. X Omega Ruby It can help in tunnel construction. Its drill has evolved into steel strong enough to bore through iron plates. Y Alpha Sapphire More than 300 feet below the surface, they build mazelike nests. Their activity can be destructive to subway tunnels. 
Audino		531	Generation 5	Normal 			Hearing Pokemon		 Healer Regenerator Klutz  		3′7″ (1.09m) 		68.3 lbs (31.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Timburr		532	Generation 5	Fighting 		Muscular Pokemon	 Guts Sheer Force Iron Fist  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		27.6 lbs (12.5 kg) 		Basic form
Black It fights by swinging a piece of lumber around. It is close to evolving when it can handle the lumber without difficulty. White These Pokémon appear at building sites and help out with construction. They always carry squared logs. Black 2 White 2 Always carrying squared logs, they help out with construction. As they grow, they carry bigger logs. X Omega Ruby These Pokémon appear at building sites and help out with construction. They always carry squared logs. Y Alpha Sapphire Always carrying squared logs, they help out with construction. As they grow, they carry bigger logs. 
Gurdurr		533	Generation 5	Fighting 		Muscular Pokemon	 Guts Sheer Force Iron Fist  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		88.2 lbs (40.0 kg) 		First stage
Black This Pokémon is so muscular and strongly built that even a group of wrestlers could not make it budge an inch. White They strengthen their bodies by carrying steel beams. They show off their big muscles to their friends. Black 2 White 2 With strengthened bodies, they skillfully wield steel beams to take down buildings. X Omega Ruby With strengthened bodies, they skillfully wield steel beams to take down buildings. Y Alpha Sapphire This Pokémon is so muscular and strongly built that even a group of wrestlers could not make it budge an inch. 
Conkeldurr	534	Generation 5	Fighting 		Muscular Pokemon	 Guts Sheer Force Iron Fist  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		191.8 lbs (87.0 kg) 		Second stage
Black It is thought that Conkeldurr taught humans how to make concrete more than 2,000 years ago. White They use concrete pillars as walking canes. They know moves that enable them to swing the pillars freely in battle. Black 2 White 2 Rather than rely on force, they master moves that utilize the centrifugal force of spinning concrete. X Omega Ruby It is thought that Conkeldurr taught humans how to make concrete more than 2,000 years ago. Y Alpha Sapphire Rather than rely on force, they master moves that utilize the centrifugal force of spinning concrete. 
Tympole		535	Generation 5	Water 			Tadpole Pokemon		 Hydration Swift Swim Water Absorb  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		9.9 lbs (4.5 kg) 		Basic form
Black They warn others of danger by vibrating their cheeks to create a high-pitched sound. White By vibrating its cheeks, it emits sound waves imperceptible to humans. It uses the rhythm of these sounds to talk. Black 2 White 2 By vibrating its cheeks, it emits sound waves imperceptible to humans and warns others of danger. X Omega Ruby By vibrating its cheeks, it emits sound waves imperceptible to humans and warns others of danger. Y Alpha Sapphire By vibrating its cheeks, it emits sound waves imperceptible to humans. It uses the rhythm of these sounds to talk. 
Palpitoad	536	Generation 5	Water Ground 		Vibration Pokemon	 Hydration Swift Swim Water Absorb  	2′7″ (0.79m) 		37.5 lbs (17.0 kg) 		First stage
Black When they vibrate the bumps on their heads, they can make waves in water or earthquake-like vibrations on land. White It lives in the water and on land. It uses its long, sticky tongue to capture prey. Black 2 White 2 It lives in the water and on land. It uses its long, sticky tongue to immobilize its opponents. X Omega Ruby When they vibrate the bumps on their heads, they can make waves in water or earthquake-like vibrations on land. Y Alpha Sapphire It lives in the water and on land. It uses its long, sticky tongue to immobilize its opponents. 
Seismitoad	537	Generation 5	Water Ground 		Vibration Pokemon	 Poison Touch Swift Swim Water Absorb  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		136.7 lbs (62.0 kg) 		Second stage
Black They shoot paralyzing liquid from their head bumps. They use vibration to hurt their opponents. White It increases the power of its punches by vibrating the bumps on its fists. It can turn a boulder to rubble with one punch. Black 2 White 2 By putting power into its bumps, it creates vibrations and increases the power of its punches. X Omega Ruby It increases the power of its punches by vibrating the bumps on its fists. It can turn a boulder to rubble with one punch. Y Alpha Sapphire They shoot paralyzing liquid from their head bumps. They use vibration to hurt their opponents. 
Throh		538	Generation 5	Fighting 		Judo Pokemon		 Guts Inner Focus Mold Breaker  	4′3″ (1.30m) 		122.4 lbs (55.5 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Sawk		539	Generation 5	Fighting 		Karate Pokemon		 Inner Focus Sturdy Mold Breaker  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		112.4 lbs (51.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Sewaddle	540	Generation 5	Bug Grass 		Sewing Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Swarm Overcoat  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		5.5 lbs (2.5 kg) 		Basic form
Black Leavanny dress it in clothes they made for it when it hatched. It hides its head in its hood while it is sleeping. White This Pokémon makes clothes for itself. It chews up leaves and sews them with sticky thread extruded from its mouth. Black 2 White 2 Since this Pokémon makes its own clothes out of leaves, it is a popular mascot for fashion designers. X Omega Ruby This Pokémon makes clothes for itself. It chews up leaves and sews them with sticky thread extruded from its mouth. Y Alpha Sapphire Since this Pokémon makes its own clothes out of leaves, it is a popular mascot for fashion designers. 
Swadloon	541	Generation 5	Bug Grass 		Leaf-Wrapped Pokemon	 Chlorophyll Leaf Guard Overcoat  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		16.1 lbs (7.3 kg) 		First stage
Black Forests where Swadloon live have superb foliage because the nutrients they make from fallen leaves nourish the plant life. White It protects itself from the cold by wrapping up in leaves. It stays on the move, eating leaves in forests. Black 2 White 2 Preferring dark, damp places, it spends the entire day eating fallen leaves that lie around it. X Omega Ruby Forests where Swadloon live have superb foliage because the nutrients they make from fallen leaves nourish the plant life. Y Alpha Sapphire It protects itself from the cold by wrapping up in leaves. It stays on the move, eating leaves in forests. 
Leavanny	542	Generation 5	Bug Grass 		Nurturing Pokemon	 Chlorophyll Swarm Overcoat  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		45.2 lbs (20.5 kg) 		Second stage
Black Upon finding a small Pokémon, it weaves clothing for it from leaves, using the cutters on its arms and sticky silk. White It keeps its eggs warm with heat from fermenting leaves. It also uses leaves to make warm wrappings for Sewaddle. Black 2 White 2 Upon finding a small Pokémon, it weaves clothing for it from leaves by using the sticky silk secreted from its mouth. X Omega Ruby Upon finding a small Pokémon, it weaves clothing for it from leaves by using the sticky silk secreted from its mouth. Y Alpha Sapphire It keeps its eggs warm with heat from fermenting leaves. It also uses leaves to make warm wrappings for Sewaddle. 
Venipede	543	Generation 5	Bug Poison 		Centipede Pokemon	 Poison Point Swarm Speed Boost  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		11.7 lbs (5.3 kg) 		Basic form
Black Its bite injects a potent poison, enough to paralyze large bird Pokémon that try to prey on it. White It discovers what is going on around it by using the feelers on its head and tail. It is brutally aggressive. Black 2 White 2 Using the feelers on its head and tail, it picks up vibrations in the air to determine its prey’s location and state. X Omega Ruby It discovers what is going on around it by using the feelers on its head and tail. It is brutally aggressive. Y Alpha Sapphire Its bite injects a potent poison, enough to paralyze large bird Pokémon that try to prey on it. 
Whirlipede	544	Generation 5	Bug Poison 		Curlipede Pokemon	 Poison Point Swarm Speed Boost  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		129 lbs (58.5 kg) 		First stage
Black Protected by a hard shell, it spins its body like a wheel and crashes furiously into its enemies. White It is usually motionless, but when attacked, it rotates at high speed and then crashes into its opponent. Black 2 White 2 Storing energy for evolution, it sits. But, when predators approach, it moves to stab them with poison spikes. X Omega Ruby Protected by a hard shell, it spins its body like a wheel and crashes furiously into its enemies. Y Alpha Sapphire It is usually motionless, but when attacked, it rotates at high speed and then crashes into its opponent. 
Scolipede	545	Generation 5	Bug Poison 		Megapede Pokemon	 Poison Point Swarm Speed Boost  	8′2″ (2.49m) 		442 lbs (200.5 kg) 		Second stage
Black With quick movements, it chases down its foes, attacking relentlessly with its horns until it prevails. White Highly aggressive, it uses the claws near its neck to dig into its opponents and poison them. Black 2 White 2 It clasps its prey with the claws on its neck until it stops moving. Then it finishes it off with deadly poison. X Omega Ruby It clasps its prey with the claws on its neck until it stops moving. Then it finishes it off with deadly poison. Y Alpha Sapphire With quick movements, it chases down its foes, attacking relentlessly with its horns until it prevails. 
Cottonee	546	Generation 5	Grass Fairy 		Cotton Puff Pokemon	 Infiltrator Prankster Chlorophyll  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		1.3 lbs (0.6 kg) 		Basic form
Black When attacked, it escapes by shooting cotton from its body. The cotton serves as a decoy to distract the attacker. White They go wherever the wind takes them. On rainy days, their bodies are heavier, so they take shelter beneath big trees. Black 2 White 2 Perhaps because they feel more at ease in a group, they stick to others they find. They end up looking like a cloud. X Omega Ruby When attacked, it escapes by shooting cotton from its body. The cotton serves as a decoy to distract the attacker. Y Alpha Sapphire Perhaps because they feel more at ease in a group, they stick to others they find. They end up looking like a cloud. Sun When it finds others of its kind, they all stick together. When enough of them have collected, the mass resembles a cumulonimbus cloud. Moon Pillows and beds stuffed with cotton exhaled by Cottonee are soft and puffy, light and airy— altogether top quality. 
Whimsicott	547	Generation 5	Grass Fairy 		Windveiled Pokemon	 Infiltrator Prankster Chlorophyll  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		14.6 lbs (6.6 kg) 		First stage
Black Like the wind, it can slip through any gap, no matter how small. It leaves balls of white fluff behind. White Riding whirlwinds, they appear. These Pokémon sneak through gaps into houses and cause all sorts of mischief. Black 2 White 2 They appear along with whirlwinds. They pull pranks, such as moving furniture and leaving balls of cotton in homes. X Omega Ruby They appear along with whirlwinds. They pull pranks, such as moving furniture and leaving balls of cotton in homes. Y Alpha Sapphire Like the wind, it can slip through any gap, no matter how small. It leaves balls of white fluff behind. Sun It rides on the wind and slips into people’s homes. After it has turned a room into a cotton- filled mess, it giggles to itself and takes off. Moon This Pokémon appears, riding upon the wind. But if the wind gusts up, it’ll blow the cotton on this Pokémon’s head clean off. 
Petilil		548	Generation 5	Grass 			Bulb Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Own Tempo Leaf Guard  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		14.6 lbs (6.6 kg) 		Basic form
Black The leaves on its head are very bitter. Eating one of these leaves is known to refresh a tired body. White Since they prefer moist, nutrient-rich soil, the areas where Petilil live are known to be good for growing plants. Black 2 White 2 The leaves on its head grow right back even if they fall out. These bitter leaves refresh those who eat them. X Omega Ruby The leaves on its head are very bitter. Eating one of these leaves is known to refresh a tired body. Y Alpha Sapphire Since they prefer moist, nutrient-rich soil, the areas where Petilil live are known to be good for growing plants. Sun Although the leaves on its head are bitter enough to cause dizziness, they provide relief from weariness—even more so when boiled. Moon By pruning the leaves on its head with regularity, this Pokémon can be grown into a fine plump shape. 
Lilligant	549	Generation 5	Grass 			Flowering Pokemon	 Chlorophyll Own Tempo Leaf Guard  	3′7″ (1.09m) 		35.9 lbs (16.3 kg) 		First stage
Black Even veteran Trainers face a challenge in getting its beautiful flower to bloom. This Pokémon is popular with celebrities. White The fragrance of the garland on its head has a relaxing effect. It withers if a Trainer does not take good care of it. Black 2 White 2 The fragrance of the garland on its head has a relaxing effect, but taking care of it is very difficult. X Omega Ruby The fragrance of the garland on its head has a relaxing effect. It withers if a Trainer does not take good care of it. Y Alpha Sapphire Even veteran Trainers face a challenge in getting its beautiful flower to bloom. This Pokémon is popular with celebrities. Sun No matter how much time and money is spent raising it, its flowers are the most beautiful when they bloom in the wild. Moon As soon as it finds a male to be its partner, the beautiful flower on its head darkens, droops, and withers away. 
Basculin	550	Generation 5	Water 			Hostile Pokemon		 Adaptability Reckless Rock Head Mold Breaker  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		39.7 lbs (18.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Sandile		551	Generation 5	Ground Dark 		Desert Croc Pokemon	 Intimidate Moxie Anger Point  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		33.5 lbs (15.2 kg) 		Basic form
Black They live buried in the sands of the desert. The sun-warmed sands prevent their body temperature from dropping. White It moves along below the sand’s surface, except for its nose and eyes. A dark membrane shields its eyes from the sun. Black 2 White 2 They live hidden under hot desert sands in order to keep their body temperature from dropping. X Omega Ruby It moves along below the sand’s surface, except for its nose and eyes. A dark membrane shields its eyes from the sun. Y Alpha Sapphire They live buried in the sands of the desert. The sun-warmed sands prevent their body temperature from dropping. Sun It submerges itself in sand and moves as if swimming. This wise behavior keeps its enemies from finding it and maintains its temperature. Moon It conceals itself in the sand and chomps down on the legs of any prey that unwarily walk over it. Its favorite food is Trapinch. 
Krokorok	552	Generation 5	Ground Dark 		Desert Croc Pokemon	 Intimidate Moxie Anger Point  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		73.6 lbs (33.4 kg) 		First stage
Black They live in groups of a few individuals. Protective membranes shield their eyes from sandstorms. White The special membrane covering its eyes can sense the heat of objects, so it can see its surroundings even in darkness. Black 2 White 2 Protected by thin membranes, their eyes can see even in the dead of night. They live in groups of a few individuals. X Omega Ruby They live in groups of a few individuals. Protective membranes shield their eyes from sandstorms. Y Alpha Sapphire The special membrane covering its eyes can sense the heat of objects, so it can see its surroundings even in darkness. Sun They move in groups of a few individuals. A female is often the leader of the group, and the males will gather food. Moon Thanks to the special membrane covering its eyes, it can see its surroundings clearly, even in the middle of the night. 
Krookodile	553	Generation 5	Ground Dark 		Intimidation Pokemon	 Intimidate Moxie Anger Point  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		212.3 lbs (96.3 kg) 		Second stage
Black They never allow prey to escape. Their jaws are so powerful, they can crush the body of an automobile. White It can expand the focus of its eyes, enabling it to see objects in the far distance as if it were using binoculars. Black 2 White 2 Very violent Pokémon, they try to clamp down on anything that moves in front of their eyes. X Omega Ruby Very violent Pokémon, they try to clamp down on anything that moves in front of their eyes. Y Alpha Sapphire They never allow prey to escape. Their jaws are so powerful, they can crush the body of an automobile. Sun Its unique faculty of sight can detect small prey more than 30 miles away, even in the midst of a sandstorm. Moon After clamping down with its powerful jaws, it twists its body around to rip its prey in half. 
Darumaka	554	Generation 5	Fire 			Zen Charm Pokemon	 Hustle Inner Focus  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		82.7 lbs (37.5 kg) 		Basic form
Black When its internal fire is burning, it cannot calm down and it runs around. When the fire diminishes, it falls asleep. White Darumaka’s droppings are hot, so people used to put them in their clothes to keep themselves warm. Black 2 White 2 When it sleeps, it pulls its limbs into its body and its internal fire goes down to 1,100° F. X Omega Ruby Darumaka’s droppings are hot, so people used to put them in their clothes to keep themselves warm. Y Alpha Sapphire When it sleeps, it pulls its limbs into its body and its internal fire goes down to 1,100 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Darmanitan	555	Generation 5	Fire 			Blazing Pokemon		 Sheer Force Zen Mode  			4′3″ (1.30m) 		204.8 lbs (92.9 kg) 		First stage
Black Its internal fire burns at 2,500° F, making enough power that it can destroy a dump truck with one punch. White When weakened in battle, it transforms into a stone statue. Then it sharpens its mind and fights on mentally. Black 2 White 2 When one is injured in a fierce battle, it hardens into a stone-like form. Then it meditates and sharpens its mind. X Omega Ruby When one is injured in a fierce battle, it hardens into a stone-like form. Then it meditates and sharpens its mind. Y Alpha Sapphire Its internal fire burns at 2,500 degrees Fahrenheit, making enough power that it can destroy a dump truck with one punch. 
Maractus	556	Generation 5	Grass 			Cactus Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Water Absorb Storm Drain  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		61.7 lbs (28.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Dwebble		557	Generation 5	Bug Rock 		Rock Inn Pokemon	 Shell Armor Sturdy Weak Armor  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		32 lbs (14.5 kg) 		Basic form
Black This Pokémon can easily melt holes in hard rocks with a liquid secreted from its mouth. White It makes a hole in a suitable rock. If that rock breaks, the Pokémon remains agitated until it locates a replacement. Black 2 White 2 When it finds a stone of a suitable size, it secretes a liquid from its mouth to open up a hole to crawl into. X Omega Ruby It makes a hole in a suitable rock. If that rock breaks, the Pokémon remains agitated until it locates a replacement. Y Alpha Sapphire When it finds a stone of a suitable size, it secretes a liquid from its mouth to open up a hole to crawl into. 
Crustle		558	Generation 5	Bug Rock 		Stone Home Pokemon	 Shell Armor Sturdy Weak Armor  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		440.9 lbs (200.0 kg) 		First stage
Black Competing for territory, Crustle fight viciously. The one whose boulder is broken is the loser of the battle. White It possesses legs of enormous strength, enabling it to carry heavy slabs for many days, even when crossing arid land. Black 2 White 2 When its boulder is broken in battles for territory, it feels unsure and begins to weaken. X Omega Ruby It possesses legs of enormous strength, enabling it to carry heavy slabs for many days, even when crossing arid land. Y Alpha Sapphire Competing for territory, Crustle fight viciously. The one whose boulder is broken is the loser of the battle. 
Scraggy		559	Generation 5	Dark Fighting 		Shedding Pokemon	 Moxie Shed Skin Intimidate  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		26 lbs (11.8 kg) 		Basic form
Black Its skin has a rubbery elasticity, so it can reduce damage by defensively pulling its skin up to its neck. White It immediately headbutts anyone that makes eye contact with it. Its skull is massively thick. Black 2 White 2 Proud of its sturdy skull, it suddenly headbutts everything, but its weight makes it unstable, too. X Omega Ruby Its skin has a rubbery elasticity, so it can reduce damage by defensively pulling its skin up to its neck. Y Alpha Sapphire Proud of its sturdy skull, it suddenly headbutts everything, but its weight makes it unstable, too. 
Scrafty		560	Generation 5	Dark Fighting 		Hoodlum Pokemon		 Moxie Shed Skin Intimidate  	3′7″ (1.09m) 		66.1 lbs (30.0 kg) 		First stage
Black Groups of them beat up anything that enters their territory. Each can spit acidic liquid from its mouth. White It can smash concrete blocks with its kicking attacks. The one with the biggest crest is the group leader. Black 2 White 2 It pulls up its shed skin to protect itself while it kicks. The bigger the crest, the more respected it is. X Omega Ruby It pulls up its shed skin to protect itself while it kicks. The bigger the crest, the more respected it is. Y Alpha Sapphire It can smash concrete blocks with its kicking attacks. The one with the biggest crest is the group leader. 
Sigilyph	561	Generation 5	Psychic Flying 		Avianoid Pokemon	 Magic Guard Wonder Skin Tinted Lens  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		30.9 lbs (14.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Yamask		562	Generation 5	Ghost 			Spirit Pokemon		 Mummy 					1′8″ (0.51m) 		3.3 lbs (1.5 kg) 		Basic form
Black Each of them carries a mask that used to be its face when it was human. Sometimes they look at it and cry. White These Pokémon arose from the spirits of people interred in graves in past ages. Each retains memories of its former life. Black 2 White 2 These Pokémon arose from the spirits of people interred in graves. Each retains memories of its former life. X Omega Ruby These Pokémon arose from the spirits of people interred in graves. Each retains memories of its former life. Y Alpha Sapphire Each of them carries a mask that used to be its face when it was human. Sometimes they look at it and cry. 
Cofagrigus	563	Generation 5	Ghost 			Coffin Pokemon		 Mummy 					5′7″ (1.70m) 		168.7 lbs (76.5 kg) 		First stage
Black It has been said that they swallow those who get too close and turn them into mummies. They like to eat gold nuggets. White They pretend to be elaborate coffins to teach lessons to grave robbers. Their bodies are covered in pure gold. Black 2 White 2 Grave robbers who mistake them for real coffins and get too close end up trapped inside their bodies. X Omega Ruby It has been said that they swallow those who get too close and turn them into mummies. They like to eat gold nuggets. Y Alpha Sapphire Grave robbers who mistake them for real coffins and get too close end up trapped inside their bodies. 
Tirtouga	564	Generation 5	Water Rock 		Prototurtle Pokemon	 Solid Rock Sturdy Swift Swim  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		36.4 lbs (16.5 kg) 		Basic form
Black Restored from a fossil, this Pokémon can dive to depths beyond half a mile. White About 100 million years ago, these Pokémon swam in oceans. It is thought they also went on land to attack prey. Black 2 White 2 This Pokémon was restored from a fossil. It swam skillfully and dove to depths beyond half a mile. X Omega Ruby About 100 million years ago, these Pokémon swam in oceans. It is thought they also went on land to attack prey. Y Alpha Sapphire Restored from a fossil, this Pokémon can dive to depths beyond half a mile. Sun Based on studies of its skeletal structure, it can apparently dive to ocean depths of over half a mile. Moon Reputed to be the ancestor of most turtle Pokémon, it lived in warm seas approximately a hundred million years ago. 
Carracosta	565	Generation 5	Water Rock 		Prototurtle Pokemon	 Solid Rock Sturdy Swift Swim  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		178.6 lbs (81.0 kg) 		First stage
Black They can live both in the ocean and on land. A slap from one of them is enough to open a hole in the bottom of a tanker. White Incredible jaw strength enables them to chew up steel beams and rocks along with their prey. Black 2 White 2 It could knock out a foe with a slap from one of its developed front appendages and chew it up, shell or bones and all. X Omega Ruby They can live both in the ocean and on land. A slap from one of them is enough to open a hole in the bottom of a tanker. Y Alpha Sapphire It could knock out a foe with a slap from one of its developed front appendages and chew it up, shell or bones and all. Sun It constructed its sturdy shell by crunching and swallowing the hard shells or bones of its prey. Moon Active both on land and in the sea, this Pokémon drags its land-based prey into the water to finish it off. 
Archen		566	Generation 5	Rock Flying 		First Bird Pokemon	 Defeatist 				1′8″ (0.51m) 		20.9 lbs (9.5 kg) 		Basic form
Black Said to be an ancestor of bird Pokémon, they were unable to fly and moved about by hopping from one branch to another. White Revived from a fossil, this Pokémon is thought to be the ancestor of all bird Pokémon. Black 2 White 2 It was revived from an ancient fossil. Not able to fly, it lived in treetops and hopped from one branch to another. X Omega Ruby Revived from a fossil, this Pokémon is thought to be the ancestor of all bird Pokémon. Y Alpha Sapphire Said to be an ancestor of bird Pokémon, they were unable to fly and moved about by hopping from one branch to another. Sun It is the ancestor of all bird Pokémon. Archen itself could not actually fly but moved by hopping from treetop to treetop. Moon To all appearances flightless, it was able to glide down from tall treetops to snag its prey. 
Archeops	567	Generation 5	Rock Flying 		First Bird Pokemon	 Defeatist 				4′7″ (1.40m) 		70.5 lbs (32.0 kg) 		First stage
Black They are intelligent and will cooperate to catch prey. From the ground, they use a running start to take flight. White It runs better than it flies. It catches prey by running at speeds comparable to those of an automobile. Black 2 White 2 It runs better than it flies. It takes off into the sky by running at a speed of 25 mph. X Omega Ruby They are intelligent and will cooperate to catch prey. From the ground, they use a running start to take flight. Y Alpha Sapphire It runs better than it flies. It takes off into the sky by running at a speed of 25 mph. Sun Although apparently able to fly, they tended to run along the ground, averaging speeds of roughly 25 mph. Moon They hunted in flocks. When one Archeops had the prey cornered, another would swoop on it. 
Trubbish	568	Generation 5	Poison 			Trash Bag Pokemon	 Stench Sticky Hold Aftermath  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		68.3 lbs (31.0 kg) 		Basic form
Black Inhaling the gas they belch will make you sleep for a week. They prefer unsanitary places. White The combination of garbage bags and industrial waste caused the chemical reaction that created this Pokémon. Black 2 White 2 Wanting more garbage, they follow people who litter. They always belch poison gas. X Omega Ruby The combination of garbage bags and industrial waste caused the chemical reaction that created this Pokémon. Y Alpha Sapphire Inhaling the gas they belch will make you sleep for a week. They prefer unsanitary places. Sun Unsanitary places are what they like best. They can be spotted in Alola, often with Grimer in hot pursuit. Moon It gorges on trash until its stomach is full. Then it belches toxic gas. An unlucky whiff of gas will put a person in the hospital. 
Garbodor	569	Generation 5	Poison 			Trash Heap Pokemon	 Stench Weak Armor Aftermath  	6′3″ (1.91m) 		236.6 lbs (107.3 kg) 		First stage
Black It clenches opponents with its left arm and finishes them off with foul-smelling poison gas belched from its mouth. White They absorb garbage and make it part of their bodies. They shoot a poisonous liquid from their right-hand fingertips. Black 2 White 2 Consuming garbage makes new kinds of poison gases and liquids inside their bodies. X Omega Ruby It clenches opponents with its left arm and finishes them off with foul-smelling poison gas belched from its mouth. Y Alpha Sapphire Consuming garbage makes new kinds of poison gases and liquids inside their bodies. Sun Beware the poisonous liquid it shoots from its right arm. If even a little of it gets on you, you’ll experience the effects of the unidentified toxin. Moon For a time, their numbers increased explosively in Alola. Since the arrival of Grimer, their population has decreased dramatically. 
Zorua		570	Generation 5	Dark 			Tricky Fox Pokemon	 Illusion 				2′4″ (0.71m) 		27.6 lbs (12.5 kg) 		Basic form
Black It changes into the forms of others to surprise them. Apparently, it often transforms into a silent child. White To protect themselves from danger, they hide their true identities by transforming into people and Pokémon. Black 2 White 2 It changes so it looks just like its foe, tricks it, and then uses that opportunity to flee. X Omega Ruby It changes so it looks just like its foe, tricks it, and then uses that opportunity to flee. Y Alpha Sapphire To protect themselves from danger, they hide their true identities by transforming into people and Pokémon. 
Zoroark		571	Generation 5	Dark 			Illusion Fox Pokemon	 Illusion 				5′3″ (1.60m) 		178.8 lbs (81.1 kg) 		First stage
Black Bonds between these Pokémon are very strong. It protects the safety of its pack by tricking its opponents. White Each has the ability to fool a large group of people simultaneously. They protect their lair with illusory scenery. Black 2 White 2 Stories say those who tried to catch Zoroark were trapped in an illusion and punished. X Omega Ruby Each has the ability to fool a large group of people simultaneously. They protect their lair with illusory scenery. Y Alpha Sapphire Bonds between these Pokémon are very strong. It protects the safety of its pack by tricking its opponents. 
Minccino	572	Generation 5	Normal 			Chinchilla Pokemon	 Cute Charm Technician Skill Link  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		12.8 lbs (5.8 kg) 		Basic form
Black They greet one another by rubbing each other with their tails, which are always kept well groomed and clean. White These Pokémon prefer a tidy habitat. They are always sweeping and dusting, using their tails as brooms. Black 2 White 2 Minccino greet each other by grooming one another thoroughly with their tails. X Omega Ruby Minccino greet each other by grooming one another thoroughly with their tails. Y Alpha Sapphire These Pokémon prefer a tidy habitat. They are always sweeping and dusting, using their tails as brooms. 
Cinccino	573	Generation 5	Normal 			Scarf Pokemon		 Cute Charm Technician Skill Link  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		16.5 lbs (7.5 kg) 		First stage
Black Their white fur is coated in a special oil that makes it easy for them to deflect attacks. White Their white fur feels amazing to touch. Their fur repels dust and prevents static electricity from building up. Black 2 White 2 Cinccino’s body is coated in a special oil that helps it deflect attacks, such as punches. X Omega Ruby Their white fur feels amazing to touch. Their fur repels dust and prevents static electricity from building up. Y Alpha Sapphire Cinccino’s body is coated in a special oil that helps it deflect attacks, such as punches. 
Gothita		574	Generation 5	Psychic 		Fixation Pokemon	 Competitive Frisk Shadow Tag  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		12.8 lbs (5.8 kg) 		Basic form
Black Their ribbonlike feelers increase their psychic power. They are always staring at something. White They intently observe both Trainers and Pokémon. Apparently, they are looking at something that only Gothita can see. Black 2 White 2 It stares intently at everything. It can become so obsessed with watching that it doesn’t notice attacks. X Omega Ruby Their ribbonlike feelers increase their psychic power. They are always staring at something. Y Alpha Sapphire They intently observe both Trainers and Pokémon. Apparently, they are looking at something that only Gothita can see. 
Gothorita	575	Generation 5	Psychic 		Manipulate Pokemon	 Competitive Frisk Shadow Tag  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		39.7 lbs (18.0 kg) 		First stage
Black They use hypnosis to control people and Pokémon. Tales of Gothorita leading people astray are told in every corner. White Starlight is the source of their power. At night, they mark star positions by using psychic power to float stones. Black 2 White 2 According to many old tales, it creates friends for itself by controlling sleeping children on starry nights. X Omega Ruby Starlight is the source of their power. At night, they mark star positions by using psychic power to float stones. Y Alpha Sapphire According to many old tales, it creates friends for itself by controlling sleeping children on starry nights. 
Gothitelle	576	Generation 5	Psychic 		Astral Body Pokemon	 Competitive Frisk Shadow Tag  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		97 lbs (44.0 kg) 		Second stage
Black Starry skies thousands of light-years away are visible in the space distorted by their intense psychic power. White They can predict the future from the placement and movement of the stars. They can see Trainers’ life spans. Black 2 White 2 It can see the future from the movement of the stars. When it learns its Trainer’s life span, it cries in sadness. X Omega Ruby Starry skies thousands of light-years away are visible in the space distorted by their intense psychic power. Y Alpha Sapphire They can predict the future from the placement and movement of the stars. They can see Trainers’ life spans. 
Solosis		577	Generation 5	Psychic 		Cell Pokemon		 Magic Guard Overcoat Regenerator  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		2.2 lbs (1.0 kg) 		Basic form
Black They drive away attackers by unleashing psychic power. They can use telepathy to talk with others. White Because their bodies are enveloped in a special liquid, they can survive in any environment. Black 2 White 2 Because their bodies are enveloped in a special liquid, they are fine in any environment, no matter how severe. X Omega Ruby Because their bodies are enveloped in a special liquid, they are fine in any environment, no matter how severe. Y Alpha Sapphire They drive away attackers by unleashing psychic power. They can use telepathy to talk with others. 
Duosion		578	Generation 5	Psychic 		Mitosis Pokemon		 Magic Guard Overcoat Regenerator  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		17.6 lbs (8.0 kg) 		First stage
Black Since they have two divided brains, at times they suddenly try to take two different actions at once. White When their brains, now divided in two, are thinking the same thoughts, these Pokémon exhibit their maximum power. Black 2 White 2 When their two divided brains think the same thoughts, their psychic power is maximized. X Omega Ruby Since they have two divided brains, at times they suddenly try to take two different actions at once. Y Alpha Sapphire When their two divided brains think the same thoughts, their psychic power is maximized. 
Reuniclus	579	Generation 5	Psychic 		Multiplying Pokemon	 Magic Guard Overcoat Regenerator  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		44.3 lbs (20.1 kg) 		Second stage
Black When Reuniclus shake hands, a network forms between their brains, increasing their psychic power. White These remarkably intelligent Pokémon fight by controlling arms that can grip with rock-crushing power. Black 2 White 2 They use psychic power to control their arms, which are made of a special liquid. They can crush boulders psychically. X Omega Ruby They use psychic power to control their arms, which are made of a special liquid. They can crush boulders psychically. Y Alpha Sapphire When Reuniclus shake hands, a network forms between their brains, increasing their psychic power. 
Ducklett	580	Generation 5	Water Flying 		Water Bird Pokemon	 Big Pecks Keen Eye Hydration  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		12.1 lbs (5.5 kg) 		Basic form
Black These bird Pokémon are excellent divers. They swim around in the water eating their favorite food--peat moss. White When attacked, it uses its feathers to splash water, escaping under cover of the spray. Black 2 White 2 They are better at swimming than flying, and they happily eat their favorite food, peat moss, as they dive underwater. X Omega Ruby When attacked, it uses its feathers to splash water, escaping under cover of the spray. Y Alpha Sapphire They are better at swimming than flying, and they happily eat their favorite food, peat moss, as they dive underwater. 
Swanna		581	Generation 5	Water Flying 		White Bird Pokemon	 Big Pecks Keen Eye Hydration  	4′3″ (1.30m) 		53.4 lbs (24.2 kg) 		First stage
Black Swanna start to dance at dusk. The one dancing in the middle is the leader of the flock. White It administers sharp, powerful pecks with its bill. It whips its long neck to deliver forceful repeated strikes. Black 2 White 2 Despite their elegant appearance, they can flap their wings strongly and fly for thousands of miles. X Omega Ruby Despite their elegant appearance, they can flap their wings strongly and fly for thousands of miles. Y Alpha Sapphire Swanna start to dance at dusk. The one dancing in the middle is the leader of the flock. 
Vanillite	582	Generation 5	Ice 			Fresh Snow Pokemon	 Ice Body Snow Cloak Weak Armor  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		12.6 lbs (5.7 kg) 		Basic form
Black The temperature of their breath is -58° F. They create snow crystals and make snow fall in the areas around them. White This Pokémon formed from icicles bathed in energy from the morning sun. It sleeps buried in snow. Black 2 White 2 Theoretically, this Pokémon formed from icicles bathed in energy from the morning sun. Their breath is -58° F. X Omega Ruby The temperature of their breath is -58 degrees Fahrenheit. They create snow crystals and make snow fall in the areas around them. Y Alpha Sapphire This Pokémon formed from icicles bathed in energy from the morning sun. It sleeps buried in snow. Sun Born of an icicle, this Pokémon uses its frosty breath to make ice crystals, causing snow to fall. Moon It feels pleasantly cool when embraced. This Pokémon is treasured by households in warm regions. 
Vanillish	583	Generation 5	Ice 			Icy Snow Pokemon	 Ice Body Snow Cloak Weak Armor  	3′7″ (1.09m) 		90.4 lbs (41.0 kg) 		First stage
Black Snowy mountains are this Pokémon’s habitat. During an ancient ice age, they moved to southern areas. White It conceals itself from enemy eyes by creating many small ice particles and hiding among them. Black 2 White 2 They cool down the surrounding air and create ice particles, which they use to freeze their foes. X Omega Ruby They cool down the surrounding air and create ice particles, which they use to freeze their foes. Y Alpha Sapphire Snowy mountains are this Pokémon’s habitat. During an ancient ice age, they moved to southern areas. Sun Hot days cause its body to melt. It can be restored by refreezing it, but the process leaves its body slightly warped. Moon This Pokémon has existed since the Ice Age. It controls particles of ice, freezes its opponents, and then shatters them with a headbutt. 
Vanilluxe	584	Generation 5	Ice 			Snowstorm Pokemon	 Ice Body Snow Warning Weak Armor  	4′3″ (1.30m) 		126.8 lbs (57.5 kg) 		Second stage
Black Swallowing large amounts of water, they make snow clouds inside their bodies and attack their foes with violent blizzards. White If both heads get angry simultaneously, this Pokémon expels a blizzard, burying everything in snow. Black 2 White 2 Swallowing large amounts of water, they make snow clouds inside their bodies and, when angry, cause violent blizzards. X Omega Ruby If both heads get angry simultaneously, this Pokémon expels a blizzard, burying everything in snow. Y Alpha Sapphire Swallowing large amounts of water, they make snow clouds inside their bodies and, when angry, cause violent blizzards. Sun Each of its two heads has a brain, and when they are in agreement, it attacks its enemies by exhaling a violent blizzard. Moon Even if it loses one of its heads, it can live relatively problem-free. It makes snow clouds inside its body. 
Deerling	585	Generation 5	Normal Grass 		Season Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Sap Sipper Serene Grace  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		43 lbs (19.5 kg) 		Basic form
Black The color and scent of their fur changes to match the mountain grass. When they sense hostility, they hide in the grass. White The turning of the seasons changes the color and scent of this Pokémon’s fur. People use it to mark the seasons. Black 2 White 2 Their coloring changes according to the seasons and can be slightly affected by the temperature and humidity as well. X Omega Ruby Their coloring changes according to the seasons and can be slightly affected by the temperature and humidity as well. Y Alpha Sapphire The turning of the seasons changes the color and scent of this Pokémon’s fur. People use it to mark the seasons. 
Sawsbuck	586	Generation 5	Normal Grass 		Season Pokemon		 Chlorophyll Sap Sipper Serene Grace  	6′3″ (1.91m) 		203.9 lbs (92.5 kg) 		First stage
Black They migrate according to the seasons. People can tell the season by looking at Sawsbuck’s horns. White The plants growing on its horns change according to the season. The leaders of the herd possess magnificent horns. Black 2 White 2 They migrate according to the seasons, so some people call Sawsbuck the harbingers of spring. X Omega Ruby They migrate according to the seasons. People can tell the season by looking at Sawsbuck’s horns. Y Alpha Sapphire They migrate according to the seasons, so some people call Sawsbuck the harbingers of spring. 
Emolga		587	Generation 5	Electric Flying 		Sky Squirrel Pokemon	 Static Motor Drive  			1′4″ (0.41m) 		11 lbs (5.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Karrablast	588	Generation 5	Bug 			Clamping Pokemon	 Shed Skin Swarm No Guard  		1′8″ (0.51m) 		13 lbs (5.9 kg) 		Basic form
Black These mysterious Pokémon evolve when they receive electrical stimulation while they are in the same place as Shelmet. White When they feel threatened, they spit an acidic liquid to drive attackers away. This Pokémon targets Shelmet. Black 2 White 2 For some reason they evolve when they receive electrical energy while they are attacking Shelmet. X Omega Ruby These mysterious Pokémon evolve when they receive electrical stimulation while they are in the same place as Shelmet. Y Alpha Sapphire For some reason they evolve when they receive electrical energy while they are attacking Shelmet. 
Escavalier	589	Generation 5	Bug Steel 		Cavalry Pokemon		 Shell Armor Swarm Overcoat  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		72.8 lbs (33.0 kg) 		First stage
Black They fly around at high speed, striking with their pointed spears. Even when in trouble, they face opponents bravely. White These Pokémon evolve by wearing the shell covering of a Shelmet. The steel armor protects their whole body. Black 2 White 2 Wearing the shell covering they stole from Shelmet, they defend themselves and attack with two lances. X Omega Ruby Wearing the shell covering they stole from Shelmet, they defend themselves and attack with two lances. Y Alpha Sapphire These Pokémon evolve by wearing the shell covering of a Shelmet. The steel armor protects their whole body. 
Foongus		590	Generation 5	Grass Poison 		Mushroom Pokemon	 Effect Spore Regenerator  		0′8″ (0.20m) 		2.2 lbs (1.0 kg) 		Basic form
Black It lures people in with its Poké Ball pattern, then releases poison spores. Why it resembles a Poké Ball is unknown. White For some reason, this Pokémon resembles a Poké Ball. They release poison spores to repel those who try to catch them. Black 2 White 2 It lures Pokémon with its pattern that looks just like a Poké Ball then releases poison spores. X Omega Ruby It lures people in with its Poké Ball pattern, then releases poison spores. Why it resembles a Poké Ball is unknown. Y Alpha Sapphire It lures Pokémon with its pattern that looks just like a Poké Ball, then releases poison spores. 
Amoonguss	591	Generation 5	Grass Poison 		Mushroom Pokemon	 Effect Spore Regenerator  		2′0″ (0.61m) 		23.1 lbs (10.5 kg) 		First stage
Black It lures prey close by dancing and waving its arm caps, which resemble Poké Balls, in a swaying motion. White They show off their Poké Ball caps to lure prey, but very few Pokémon are fooled by this. Black 2 White 2 It moves the caps on both arms and does a dance to lure prey. It prefers damp places. X Omega Ruby They show off their Poké Ball caps to lure prey, but very few Pokémon are fooled by this. Y Alpha Sapphire It lures prey close by dancing and waving its arm caps, which resemble Poké Balls, in a swaying motion. 
Frillish	592	Generation 5	Water Ghost 		Floating Pokemon	 Cursed Body Water Absorb Damp  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		72.8 lbs (33.0 kg) 		Basic form
Black With its thin, veil-like arms wrapped around the body of its opponent, it sinks to the ocean floor. White They paralyze prey with poison, then drag them down to their lairs, five miles below the surface. Black 2 White 2 If its veil-like arms stun and wrap a foe, that foe will be dragged miles below the surface, never to return. X Omega Ruby They paralyze prey with poison, then drag them down to their lairs, five miles below the surface. Y Alpha Sapphire If its veil-like arms stun and wrap a foe, that foe will be dragged miles below the surface, never to return. 
Jellicent	593	Generation 5	Water Ghost 		Floating Pokemon	 Cursed Body Water Absorb Damp  	7′3″ (2.21m) 		297.6 lbs (135.0 kg) 		First stage
Black The fate of the ships and crew that wander into Jellicent’s habitat: all sunken, all lost, all vanished. White They propel themselves by expelling absorbed seawater from their bodies. Their favorite food is life energy. Black 2 White 2 Its body is mostly seawater. It’s said there’s a castle of ships Jellicent have sunk on the seafloor. X Omega Ruby Its body is mostly seawater. It’s said there’s a castle of ships Jellicent have sunk on the seafloor. Y Alpha Sapphire The fate of the ships and crew that wander into Jellicent’s habitat: all sunken, all lost, all vanished. 
Alomomola	594	Generation 5	Water 			Caring Pokemon		 Healer Hydration Regenerator  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		69.7 lbs (31.6 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Joltik		595	Generation 5	Bug Electric 		Attaching Pokemon	 Compound Eyes Unnerve Swarm  	0′4″ (0.10m) 		1.3 lbs (0.6 kg) 		Basic form
Black Joltik that live in cities have learned a technique for sucking electricity from the outlets in houses. White They attach themselves to large-bodied Pokémon and absorb static electricity, which they store in an electric pouch. Black 2 White 2 Since it can’t generate its own electricity, it sticks onto large-bodied Pokémon and absorbs static electricity. X Omega Ruby Since it can’t generate its own electricity, it sticks onto large-bodied Pokémon and absorbs static electricity. Y Alpha Sapphire They attach themselves to large-bodied Pokémon and absorb static electricity, which they store in an electric pouch. 
Galvantula	596	Generation 5	Bug Electric 		EleSpider Pokemon	 Compound Eyes Unnerve Swarm  	2′7″ (0.79m) 		31.5 lbs (14.3 kg) 		First stage
Black When attacked, they create an electric barrier by spitting out many electrically charged threads. White They employ an electrically charged web to trap their prey. While it is immobilized by shock, they leisurely consume it. Black 2 White 2 It creates barriers from electrified silk that stun foes. This works as a weapon as well as a defense. X Omega Ruby They employ an electrically charged web to trap their prey. While it is immobilized by shock, they leisurely consume it. Y Alpha Sapphire When attacked, they create an electric barrier by spitting out many electrically charged threads. 
Ferroseed	597	Generation 5	Grass Steel 		Thorn Seed Pokemon	 Iron Barbs Anticipation  		2′0″ (0.61m) 		41.4 lbs (18.8 kg) 		Basic form
Black When threatened, it attacks by shooting a barrage of spikes, which gives it a chance to escape by rolling away. White They stick their spikes into cave walls and absorb the minerals they find in the rock. Black 2 White 2 It absorbs the iron it finds in the rock while clinging to the ceiling. It shoots spikes when in danger. X Omega Ruby When threatened, it attacks by shooting a barrage of spikes, which gives it a chance to escape by rolling away. Y Alpha Sapphire It absorbs the iron it finds in the rock while clinging to the ceiling. It shoots spikes when in danger. 
Ferrothorn	598	Generation 5	Grass Steel 		Thorn Pod Pokemon	 Iron Barbs Anticipation  		3′3″ (0.99m) 		242.5 lbs (110.0 kg) 		First stage
Black It fights by swinging around its three spiky feelers. A hit from these steel spikes can reduce a boulder to rubble. White They attach themselves to cave ceilings, firing steel spikes at targets passing beneath them. Black 2 White 2 By swinging around its three spiky feelers and shooting spikes, it can obliterate an opponent. X Omega Ruby By swinging around its three spiky feelers and shooting spikes, it can obliterate an opponent. Y Alpha Sapphire They attach themselves to cave ceilings, firing steel spikes at targets passing beneath them. 
Klink		599	Generation 5	Steel 			Gear Pokemon		 Minus Plus Clear Body  			1′0″ (0.30m) 		46.3 lbs (21.0 kg) 		Basic form
Black The two minigears that mesh together are predetermined. Each will rebound from other minigears without meshing. White Interlocking two bodies and spinning around generates the energy they need to live. Black 2 White 2 Two bodies comprise a fixed pair. They spin around each other to generate energy. X Omega Ruby Interlocking two bodies and spinning around generates the energy they need to live. Y Alpha Sapphire The two minigears that mesh together are predetermined. Each will rebound from other minigears without meshing. 
Klang		600	Generation 5	Steel 			Gear Pokemon		 Minus Plus Clear Body  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		112.4 lbs (51.0 kg) 		First stage
Black By changing the direction in which it rotates, it communicates its feelings to others. When angry, it rotates faster. White Spinning minigears are rotated at high speed and repeatedly fired away. It is dangerous if the gears don’t return. Black 2 White 2 A minigear and big gear comprise its body. If the minigear it launches at a foe doesn’t return, it will die. X Omega Ruby By changing the direction in which it rotates, it communicates its feelings to others. When angry, it rotates faster. Y Alpha Sapphire A minigear and big gear comprise its body. If the minigear it launches at a foe doesn’t return, it will die. 
Klinklang	601	Generation 5	Steel 			Gear Pokemon		 Minus Plus Clear Body  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		178.6 lbs (81.0 kg) 		Second stage
Black Its red core functions as an energy tank. It fires the charged energy through its spikes into an area. White The gear with the red core is rotated at high speed for a rapid energy charge. Black 2 White 2 The minigear spins at high speed. Then the energy from the red core charges the minigear to make it ready to fire. X Omega Ruby The gear with the red core is rotated at high speed for a rapid energy charge. Y Alpha Sapphire Its red core functions as an energy tank. It fires the charged energy through its spikes into an area. 
Tynamo		602	Generation 5	Electric 		EleFish Pokemon		 Levitate 				0′8″ (0.20m) 		0.7 lbs (0.3 kg) 		Basic form
Black While one alone doesn’t have much power, a chain of many Tynamo can be as powerful as lightning. White These Pokémon move in schools. They have an electricity-generating organ, so they discharge electricity if in danger. Black 2 White 2 One alone can emit only a trickle of electricity, so a group of them gathers to unleash a powerful electric shock. X Omega Ruby While one alone doesn’t have much power, a chain of many Tynamo can be as powerful as lightning. Y Alpha Sapphire One alone can emit only a trickle of electricity, so a group of them gathers to unleash a powerful electric shock. 
Eelektrik	603	Generation 5	Electric 		EleFish Pokemon		 Levitate 				3′11″ (1.19m) 		48.5 lbs (22.0 kg) 		First stage
Black They coil around foes and shock them with electricity-generating organs that seem simply to be circular patterns. White These Pokémon have a big appetite. When they spot their prey, they attack it and paralyze it with electricity. Black 2 White 2 It wraps itself around its prey and paralyzes it with electricity from the round spots on its sides. Then it chomps. X Omega Ruby It wraps itself around its prey and paralyzes it with electricity from the round spots on its sides. Then it chomps. Y Alpha Sapphire These Pokémon have a big appetite. When they spot their prey, they attack it and paralyze it with electricity. 
Eelektross	604	Generation 5	Electric 		EleFish Pokemon		 Levitate 				6′11″ (2.11m) 		177.5 lbs (80.5 kg) 		Second stage
Black They crawl out of the ocean using their arms. They will attack prey on shore and immediately drag it into the ocean. White With their sucker mouths, they suck in prey. Then they use their fangs to shock the prey with electricity. Black 2 White 2 It latches on to prey with its sucker mouth, sinking in its fangs and shocking the prey with powerful electricity. X Omega Ruby With their sucker mouths, they suck in prey. Then they use their fangs to shock the prey with electricity. Y Alpha Sapphire They crawl out of the ocean using their arms. They will attack prey on shore and immediately drag it into the ocean. 
Elgyem		605	Generation 5	Psychic 		Cerebral Pokemon	 Synchronize Telepathy Analytic  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		19.8 lbs (9.0 kg) 		Basic form
Black It uses its strong psychic power to squeeze its opponent’s brain, causing unendurable headaches. White This Pokémon had never been seen until it appeared from far in the desert 50 years ago. Black 2 White 2 Rumors of its origin are linked to a UFO crash site in the desert 50 years ago. X Omega Ruby It uses its strong psychic power to squeeze its opponent’s brain, causing unendurable headaches. Y Alpha Sapphire Rumors of its origin are linked to a UFO crash site in the desert 50 years ago. 
Beheeyem	606	Generation 5	Psychic 		Cerebral Pokemon	 Synchronize Telepathy Analytic  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		76.1 lbs (34.5 kg) 		First stage
Black It can manipulate an opponent’s memory. Apparently, it communicates by flashing its three different-colored fingers. White It uses psychic power to control an opponent’s brain and tamper with its memories. Black 2 White 2 Apparently, it communicates by flashing its three fingers, but those patterns haven’t been decoded. X Omega Ruby Apparently, it communicates by flashing its three fingers, but those patterns haven’t been decoded. Y Alpha Sapphire It uses psychic power to control an opponent’s brain and tamper with its memories. 
Litwick		607	Generation 5	Ghost Fire 		Candle Pokemon		 Flame Body Flash Fire Infiltrator  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		6.8 lbs (3.1 kg) 		Basic form
Black Litwick shines a light that absorbs the life energy of people and Pokémon, which becomes the fuel that it burns. White While shining a light and pretending to be a guide, it leeches off the life force of any who follow it. Black 2 White 2 Its flame is usually out, but it starts shining when it absorbs life force from people or Pokémon. X Omega Ruby While shining a light and pretending to be a guide, it leeches off the life force of any who follow it. Y Alpha Sapphire Litwick shines a light that absorbs the life energy of people and Pokémon, which becomes the fuel that it burns. 
Lampent		608	Generation 5	Ghost Fire 		Lamp Pokemon		 Flame Body Flash Fire Infiltrator  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		28.7 lbs (13.0 kg) 		First stage
Black This ominous Pokémon is feared. Through cities it wanders, searching for the spirits of the fallen. White It arrives near the moment of death and steals spirit from the body. Black 2 White 2 The spirits it absorbs fuel its baleful fire. It hangs around hospitals waiting for people to pass on. X Omega Ruby The spirits it absorbs fuel its baleful fire. It hangs around hospitals waiting for people to pass on. Y Alpha Sapphire It arrives near the moment of death and steals spirit from the body. 
Chandelure	609	Generation 5	Ghost Fire 		Luring Pokemon		 Flame Body Flash Fire Infiltrator  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		75.6 lbs (34.3 kg) 		Second stage
Black It absorbs a spirit, which it then burns. By waving the flames on its arms, it puts its foes into a hypnotic trance. White Being consumed in Chandelure’s flame burns up the spirit, leaving the body behind. Black 2 White 2 The spirits burned up in its ominous flame lose their way and wander this world forever. X Omega Ruby Being consumed in Chandelure’s flame burns up the spirit, leaving the body behind. Y Alpha Sapphire The spirits burned up in its ominous flame lose their way and wander this world forever. 
Axew		610	Generation 5	Dragon 			Tusk Pokemon		 Mold Breaker Rivalry Unnerve  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		39.7 lbs (18.0 kg) 		Basic form
Black They use their tusks to crush the berries they eat. Repeated regrowth makes their tusks strong and sharp. White They mark their territory by leaving gashes in trees with their tusks. If a tusk breaks, a new one grows in quickly. Black 2 White 2 Its large tusks have a tendency to break, but each time they grow back, they grow in harder and sturdier. X Omega Ruby They use their tusks to crush the berries they eat. Repeated regrowth makes their tusks strong and sharp. Y Alpha Sapphire They mark their territory by leaving gashes in trees with their tusks. If a tusk breaks, a new one grows in quickly. 
Fraxure		611	Generation 5	Dragon 			Axe Jaw Pokemon		 Mold Breaker Rivalry Unnerve  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		79.4 lbs (36.0 kg) 		First stage
Black Since a broken tusk will not grow back, they diligently sharpen their tusks on river rocks after they’ve been fighting. White Their tusks can shatter rocks. Territory battles between Fraxure can be intensely violent. Black 2 White 2 A broken tusk will not grow back, so it diligently sharpens its tusks on river rocks after the end of a battle. X Omega Ruby Their tusks can shatter rocks. Territory battles between Fraxure can be intensely violent. Y Alpha Sapphire A broken tusk will not grow back, so it diligently sharpens its tusks on river rocks after the end of a battle. 
Haxorus		612	Generation 5	Dragon 			Axe Jaw Pokemon		 Mold Breaker Rivalry Unnerve  	5′11″ (1.80m) 		232.6 lbs (105.5 kg) 		Second stage
Black They are kind but can be relentless when defending territory. They challenge foes with tusks that can cut steel. White Their sturdy tusks will stay sharp even if used to cut steel beams. These Pokémon are covered in hard armor. Black 2 White 2 Its tusks are incredibly destructive. They can easily slice through a thick, sturdy steel column every time. X Omega Ruby They are kind but can be relentless when defending territory. They challenge foes with tusks that can cut steel. Y Alpha Sapphire Their sturdy tusks will stay sharp even if used to cut steel beams. These Pokémon are covered in hard armor. 
Cubchoo		613	Generation 5	Ice 			Chill Pokemon		 Slush Rush Snow Cloak Rattled  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		18.7 lbs (8.5 kg) 		Basic form
Black When it is not feeling well, its mucus gets watery and the power of its Ice-type moves decreases. White Its nose is always running. It sniffs the snot back up because the mucus provides the raw material for its moves. Black 2 White 2 Their snot is a barometer of health. When healthy, their snot is sticky and the power of their ice moves increases. X Omega Ruby Its nose is always running. It sniffs the snot back up because the mucus provides the raw material for its moves. Y Alpha Sapphire Their snot is a barometer of health. When healthy, their snot is sticky and the power of their ice moves increases. 
Beartic		614	Generation 5	Ice 			Freezing Pokemon	 Slush Rush Snow Cloak Swift Swim  	8′6″ (2.59m) 		573.2 lbs (260.0 kg) 		First stage
Black It can make its breath freeze at will. Very able in the water, it swims around in northern seas and catches prey. White It freezes its breath to create fangs and claws of ice to fight with. Cold northern areas are its habitat. Black 2 White 2 They love the cold seas of the north. They create pathways across the ocean waters by freezing their own breath. X Omega Ruby They love the cold seas of the north. They create pathways across the ocean waters by freezing their own breath. Y Alpha Sapphire It freezes its breath to create fangs and claws of ice to fight with. Cold northern areas are its habitat. 
Cryogonal	615	Generation 5	Ice 			Crystallizing Pokemon Levitate 				3′7″ (1.09m) 		326.3 lbs (148.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Shelmet		616	Generation 5	Bug 			Snail Pokemon		 Hydration Shell Armor Overcoat  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		17 lbs (7.7 kg) 		Basic form
Black When attacked, it defends itself by closing the lid of its shell. It can spit a sticky, poisonous liquid. White It evolves when bathed in an electric-like energy along with Karrablast. The reason is still unknown. Black 2 White 2 When it and Karrablast are together, and both receive electrical stimulation, they both evolve. X Omega Ruby When it and Karrablast are together, and both receive electrical stimulation, they both evolve. Y Alpha Sapphire It evolves when bathed in an electric-like energy along with Karrablast. The reason is still unknown. 
Accelgor	617	Generation 5	Bug 			Shell Out Pokemon	 Hydration Sticky Hold Unburden  	2′7″ (0.79m) 		55.8 lbs (25.3 kg) 		First stage
Black When its body dries out, it weakens. So, to prevent dehydration, it wraps itself in many layers of thin membrane. White Having removed its heavy shell, it becomes very light and can fight with ninja-like movements. Black 2 White 2 When its body dries out, it weakens. So it wraps a membrane around itself for protection while it spits poison. X Omega Ruby Having removed its heavy shell, it becomes very light and can fight with ninja-like movements. Y Alpha Sapphire When its body dries out, it weakens. So, to prevent dehydration, it wraps itself in many layers of thin membrane. 
Stunfisk	618	Generation 5	Ground Electric 		Trap Pokemon		 Limber Static Sand Veil  		2′4″ (0.71m) 		24.3 lbs (11.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Mienfoo		619	Generation 5	Fighting 		Martial Arts Pokemon	 Inner Focus Regenerator Reckless  	2′11″ (0.89m) 		44.1 lbs (20.0 kg) 		Basic form
Black In fights, they dominate with onslaughts of flowing, continuous attacks. With their sharp claws, they cut enemies. White They have mastered elegant combos. As they concentrate, their battle moves become swifter and more precise. Black 2 White 2 It takes pride in the speed at which it can use moves. What it loses in power, it makes up for in quantity. X Omega Ruby It takes pride in the speed at which it can use moves. What it loses in power, it makes up for in quantity. Y Alpha Sapphire In fights, they dominate with onslaughts of flowing, continuous attacks. With their sharp claws, they cut enemies. 
Mienshao	620	Generation 5	Fighting 		Martial Arts Pokemon	 Inner Focus Regenerator Reckless  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		78.3 lbs (35.5 kg) 		First stage
Black It wields the fur on its arms like a whip. Its arm attacks come with such rapidity that they cannot even be seen. White They use the long fur on their arms as a whip to strike their opponents. Black 2 White 2 Using the long fur on its arms like whips, it launches into combo attacks that, once started, no one can stop. X Omega Ruby It wields the fur on its arms like a whip. Its arm attacks come with such rapidity that they cannot even be seen. Y Alpha Sapphire Using the long fur on its arms like whips, it launches into combo attacks that, once started, no one can stop. 
Druddigon	621	Generation 5	Dragon 			Cave Pokemon		 Rough Skin Sheer Force Mold Breaker  	5′3″ (1.60m) 		306.4 lbs (139.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Golett		622	Generation 5	Ground Ghost 		Automaton Pokemon	 Iron Fist Klutz No Guard  		3′3″ (0.99m) 		202.8 lbs (92.0 kg) 		Basic form
Black The energy that burns inside it enables it to move, but no one has yet been able to identify this energy. White These Pokémon are thought to have been created by the science of an ancient and mysterious civilization. Black 2 White 2 Ancient science fashioned this Pokémon from clay. It’s been active for thousands of years. X Omega Ruby The energy that burns inside it enables it to move, but no one has yet been able to identify this energy. Y Alpha Sapphire Ancient science fashioned this Pokémon from clay. It’s been active for thousands of years. 
Golurk		623	Generation 5	Ground Ghost 		Automaton Pokemon	 Iron Fist Klutz No Guard  		9′2″ (2.79m) 		727.5 lbs (330.0 kg) 		First stage
Black It flies across the sky at Mach speeds. Removing the seal on its chest makes its internal energy go out of control. White It is said that Golurk were ordered to protect people and Pokémon by the ancient people who made them. Black 2 White 2 Golurk were created to protect people and Pokémon. They run on a mysterious energy. X Omega Ruby It is said that Golurk were ordered to protect people and Pokémon by the ancient people who made them. Y Alpha Sapphire It flies across the sky at Mach speeds. Removing the seal on its chest makes its internal energy go out of control. 
Pawniard	624	Generation 5	Dark Steel 		Sharp Blade Pokemon	 Defiant Inner Focus Pressure  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		22.5 lbs (10.2 kg) 		Basic form
Black Blades comprise this Pokémon’s entire body. If battling dulls the blades, it sharpens them on stones by the river. White They fight at Bisharp’s command. They cling to their prey and inflict damage by sinking their blades into it. Black 2 White 2 Ignoring their injuries, groups attack by sinking the blades that cover their bodies into their prey. X Omega Ruby Blades comprise this Pokémon’s entire body. If battling dulls the blades, it sharpens them on stones by the river. Y Alpha Sapphire Ignoring their injuries, groups attack by sinking the blades that cover their bodies into their prey. 
Bisharp		625	Generation 5	Dark Steel 		Sword Blade Pokemon	 Defiant Inner Focus Pressure  	5′3″ (1.60m) 		154.3 lbs (70.0 kg) 		First stage
Black It leads a group of Pawniard. It battles to become the boss, but will be driven from the group if it loses. White Bisharp pursues prey in the company of a large group of Pawniard. Then Bisharp finishes off the prey. Black 2 White 2 This pitiless Pokémon commands a group of Pawniard to hound prey into immobility. It then moves in to finish the prey off. X Omega Ruby This pitiless Pokémon commands a group of Pawniard to hound prey into immobility. It then moves in to finish the prey off. Y Alpha Sapphire Bisharp pursues prey in the company of a large group of Pawniard. Then Bisharp finishes off the prey. 
Bouffalant	626	Generation 5	Normal 			Bash Buffalo Pokemon	 Reckless Sap Sipper Soundproof  	5′3″ (1.60m) 		208.6 lbs (94.6 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Rufflet		627	Generation 5	Normal Flying 		Eaglet Pokemon		 Keen Eye Sheer Force Hustle  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		23.1 lbs (10.5 kg) 		Basic form
Black They crush berries with their talons. They bravely stand up to any opponent, no matter how strong it is. White They will challenge anything, even strong opponents, without fear. Their frequent fights help them become stronger. Black 2 White 2 It stands up to massive opponents, not out of courage, but out of recklessness. But that is how it gets stronger. X Omega Ruby They crush berries with their talons. They bravely stand up to any opponent, no matter how strong it is. Y Alpha Sapphire They will challenge anything, even strong opponents, without fear. Their frequent fights help them become stronger. Sun They pick fights indiscriminately. They grow stronger and more powerful each time they faint or are injured. Moon With its sharp claws, this Pokémon pierces its prey, and then it pecks at them. Although it also consumes berries, it’s a carnivore at heart. 
Braviary	628	Generation 5	Normal Flying 		Valiant Pokemon		 Keen Eye Sheer Force Defiant  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		90.4 lbs (41.0 kg) 		First stage
Black They fight for their friends without any thought about danger to themselves. One can carry a car while flying. White The more scars they have, the more respect these brave soldiers of the sky get from their peers. Black 2 White 2 For the sake of its friends, this brave warrior of the sky will not stop battling, even if injured. X Omega Ruby For the sake of its friends, this brave warrior of the sky will not stop battling, even if injured. Y Alpha Sapphire They fight for their friends without any thought about danger to themselves. One can carry a car while flying. Sun With its brave disposition, it fears nothing—not even death. Ancient Alolan people respected it, referring to it as “the hero of the sky.” Moon It’s thought that people disturbed their habitats in the past, so Braviary banded together to fight back. 
Vullaby		629	Generation 5	Dark Flying 		Diapered Pokemon	 Big Pecks Overcoat Weak Armor  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		19.8 lbs (9.0 kg) 		Basic form
Black Its wings are too tiny to allow it to fly. As the time approaches for it to evolve, it discards the bones it was wearing. White They tend to guard their posteriors with suitable bones they have found. They pursue weak Pokémon. Black 2 White 2 Their wings are too tiny to allow them to fly. They guard their posteriors with bones that were gathered by Mandibuzz. X Omega Ruby Its wings are too tiny to allow it to fly. As the time approaches for it to evolve, it discards the bones it was wearing. Y Alpha Sapphire Their wings are too tiny to allow them to fly. They guard their posteriors with bones that were gathered by Mandibuzz. Sun It protects its plump posterior with the bones of prey it has consumed. As it grows, it replaces the bones. Moon It can’t fly yet and must wait until its wings have developed more. Since it’s still at a playful age, it hops around friskily. 
Mandibuzz	630	Generation 5	Dark Flying 		Bone Vulture Pokemon	 Big Pecks Overcoat Weak Armor  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		87.1 lbs (39.5 kg) 		First stage
Black It makes a nest out of bones it finds. It grabs weakened prey in its talons and hauls it to its nest of bones. White Watching from the sky, they swoop to strike weakened Pokémon on the ground. They decorate themselves with bones. Black 2 White 2 They fly in circles around the sky. When they spot prey, they attack and carry it back to their nest with ease. X Omega Ruby They fly in circles around the sky. When they spot prey, they attack and carry it back to their nest with ease. Y Alpha Sapphire Watching from the sky, they swoop to strike weakened Pokémon on the ground. They decorate themselves with bones. Sun They adorn themselves beautifully with bones. This is supposedly an effort to attract males, but no male Mandibuzz have ever been found. Moon It circles in the sky, keeping a keen eye out for Pokémon in a weakened state. Its choicest food is Cubone. 
Heatmor		631	Generation 5	Fire 			Anteater Pokemon	 Flash Fire Gluttony White Smoke  	4′7″ (1.40m) 		127.9 lbs (58.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Durant		632	Generation 5	Bug Steel 		Iron Ant Pokemon	 Hustle Swarm Truant  			1′0″ (0.30m) 		72.8 lbs (33.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Deino		633	Generation 5	Dark Dragon 		Irate Pokemon		 Hustle 					2′7″ (0.79m) 		38.1 lbs (17.3 kg) 		Basic form
Black It tends to bite everything, and it is not a picky eater. Approaching it carelessly is dangerous. White They cannot see, so they tackle and bite to learn about their surroundings. Their bodies are covered in wounds. Black 2 White 2 Lacking sight, it’s unaware of its surroundings, so it bumps into things and eats anything that moves. X Omega Ruby They cannot see, so they tackle and bite to learn about their surroundings. Their bodies are covered in wounds. Y Alpha Sapphire Lacking sight, it’s unaware of its surroundings, so it bumps into things and eats anything that moves. 
Zweilous	634	Generation 5	Dark Dragon 		Hostile Pokemon		 Hustle 					4′7″ (1.40m) 		110.2 lbs (50.0 kg) 		First stage
Black After it has eaten up all the food in its territory, it moves to another area. Its two heads do not get along. White Since their two heads do not get along and compete with each other for food, they always eat too much. Black 2 White 2 The two heads do not get along. Whichever head eats more than the other gets to be the leader. X Omega Ruby The two heads do not get along. Whichever head eats more than the other gets to be the leader. Y Alpha Sapphire After it has eaten up all the food in its territory, it moves to another area. Its two heads do not get along. 
Hydreigon	635	Generation 5	Dark Dragon 		Brutal Pokemon		 Levitate 				5′11″ (1.80m) 		352.7 lbs (160.0 kg) 		Second stage
Black This brutal Pokémon travels the skies on its six wings. Anything that moves seems like a foe to it, triggering its attack. White The heads on their arms do not have brains. They use all three heads to consume and destroy everything. Black 2 White 2 It responds to movement by attacking. This scary, three-headed Pokémon devours everything in its path! X Omega Ruby The heads on their arms do not have brains. They use all three heads to consume and destroy everything. Y Alpha Sapphire It responds to movement by attacking. This scary, three-headed Pokémon devours everything in its path! 
Larvesta	636	Generation 5	Bug Fire 		Torch Pokemon		 Flame Body Swarm  			3′7″ (1.09m) 		63.5 lbs (28.8 kg) 		Basic form
Black This Pokémon was believed to have been born from the sun. When it evolves, its entire body is engulfed in flames. White The base of volcanoes is where they make their homes. They shoot fire from their five horns to repel attacking enemies. Black 2 White 2 Said to have been born from the sun, it spews fire from its horns and encases itself in a cocoon of fire when it evolves. X Omega Ruby Said to have been born from the sun, it spews fire from its horns and encases itself in a cocoon of fire when it evolves. Y Alpha Sapphire The base of volcanoes is where they make their homes. They shoot fire from their five horns to repel attacking enemies. 
Volcarona	637	Generation 5	Bug Fire 		Sun Pokemon		 Flame Body Swarm  			5′3″ (1.60m) 		101.4 lbs (46.0 kg) 		First stage
Black When volcanic ash darkened the atmosphere, it is said that Volcarona’s fire provided a replacement for the sun. White A sea of fire engulfs the surroundings of their battles, since they use their six wings to scatter their ember scales. Black 2 White 2 Thought to be an embodiment of the sun, it appeared during a bitterly cold winter and saved Pokémon from freezing. X Omega Ruby A sea of fire engulfs the surroundings of their battles, since they use their six wings to scatter their ember scales. Y Alpha Sapphire When volcanic ash darkened the atmosphere, it is said that Volcarona’s fire provided a replacement for the sun. 
Cobalion	638	Generation 5	Steel Fighting 		Iron Will Pokemon	 Justified 				6′11″ (2.11m) 		551.2 lbs (250.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Terrakion	639	Generation 5	Rock Fighting 		Cavern Pokemon		 Justified 				6′3″ (1.91m) 		573.2 lbs (260.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Virizion	640	Generation 5	Grass Fighting 		Grassland Pokemon	 Justified 				6′7″ (2.01m) 		440.9 lbs (200.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Tornadus	641	Generation 5	Flying 			Cyclone Pokemon		 Prankster Defiant  			4′11″ (1.50m) 		138.9 lbs (63.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Thundurus	642	Generation 5	Electric Flying 		Bolt Strike Pokemon	 Prankster Defiant  			4′11″ (1.50m) 		134.5 lbs (61.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Reshiram	643	Generation 5	Dragon Fire 		Vast White Pokemon	 Turboblaze 				10′6″ (3.20m) 		727.5 lbs (330.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Zekrom		644	Generation 5	Dragon Electric 		Deep Black Pokemon	 Teravolt 				9′6″ (2.90m) 		760.6 lbs (345.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Landorus	645	Generation 5	Ground Flying 		Abundance Pokemon	 Sand Force Sheer Force  		4′11″ (1.50m) 		149.9 lbs (68.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Kyurem		646	Generation 5	Dragon Ice 		Boundary Pokemon	 Pressure 				9′10″ (3.00m) 		716.5 lbs (325.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Keldeo		647	Generation 5	Water Fighting 		Colt Pokemon		 Justified 				4′7″ (1.40m) 		106.9 lbs (48.5 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Meloetta	648	Generation 5	Normal Psychic 		Melody Pokemon		 Serene Grace 				2′0″ (0.61m) 		14.3 lbs (6.5 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Genesect	649	Generation 5	Bug Steel 		Paleozoic Pokemon	 Download 				4′11″ (1.50m) 		181.9 lbs (82.5 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Chespin		650	Generation 6	Grass 			Spiny Nut Pokemon	 Overgrow Bulletproof  			1′4″ (0.41m) 		19.8 lbs (9.0 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby The quills on its head are usually soft. When it flexes them, the points become so hard and sharp that they can pierce rock. Y Alpha Sapphire Such a thick shell of wood covers its head and back that even a direct hit from a truck wouldn’t faze it. 
Quilladin	651	Generation 6	Grass 			Spiny Armor Pokemon	 Overgrow Bulletproof  			2′4″ (0.71m) 		63.9 lbs (29.0 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby It relies on its sturdy shell to deflect predators’ attacks. It counterattacks with its sharp quills. Y Alpha Sapphire They strengthen their lower bodies by running into one another. They are very kind and won’t start fights. 
Chesnaught	652	Generation 6	Grass Fighting 		Spiny Armor Pokemon	 Overgrow Bulletproof  			5′3″ (1.60m) 		198.4 lbs (90.0 kg) 		Second stage
X Omega Ruby Its Tackle is forceful enough to flip a 50-ton tank. It shields its allies from danger with its own body. Y Alpha Sapphire When it takes a defensive posture with its fists guarding its face, it could withstand a bomb blast. 
Fennekin	653	Generation 6	Fire 			Fox Pokemon		 Blaze Magician  			1′4″ (0.41m) 		20.7 lbs (9.4 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby Eating a twig fills it with energy, and its roomy ears give vent to air hotter than 390 degrees Fahrenheit. Y Alpha Sapphire As it walks, it munches on a twig in place of a snack. It intimidates opponents by puffing hot air out of its ears. 
Braixen		654	Generation 6	Fire 			Fox Pokemon		 Blaze Magician  			3′3″ (0.99m) 		32 lbs (14.5 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby It has a twig stuck in its tail. With friction from its tail fur, it sets the twig on fire and launches into battle. Y Alpha Sapphire When the twig is plucked from its tail, friction sets the twig alight. The flame is used to send signals to its allies. 
Delphox		655	Generation 6	Fire Psychic 		Fox Pokemon		 Blaze Magician  			4′11″ (1.50m) 		86 lbs (39.0 kg) 		Second stage
X Omega Ruby It gazes into the flame at the tip of its branch to achieve a focused state, which allows it to see into the future. Y Alpha Sapphire Using psychic power, it generates a fiery vortex of 5,400 degrees Fahrenheit, incinerating foes swept into this whirl of flame. 
Froakie		656	Generation 6	Water 			Bubble Frog Pokemon	 Torrent Protean  			1′0″ (0.30m) 		15.4 lbs (7.0 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby It secretes flexible bubbles from its chest and back. The bubbles reduce the damage it would otherwise take when attacked. Y Alpha Sapphire It protects its skin by covering its body in delicate bubbles. Beneath its happy-go-lucky air, it keeps a watchful eye on its surroundings. 
Frogadier	657	Generation 6	Water 			Bubble Frog Pokemon	 Torrent Protean  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		24 lbs (10.9 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby It can throw bubble-covered pebbles with precise control, hitting empty cans up to a hundred feet away. Y Alpha Sapphire Its swiftness is unparalleled. It can scale a tower of more than 2,000 feet in a minute’s time. 
Greninja	658	Generation 6	Water Dark 		Ninja Pokemon		 Torrent Protean  			4′11″ (1.50m) 		88.2 lbs (40.0 kg) 		Second stage
X Omega Ruby It creates throwing stars out of compressed water. When it spins them and throws them at high speed, these stars can split metal in two. Y Alpha Sapphire It appears and vanishes with a ninja’s grace. It toys with its enemies using swift movements, while slicing them with throwing stars of sharpest water. 
Bunnelby	659	Generation 6	Normal 			Digging Pokemon		 Cheek Pouch Pickup Huge Power  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		11 lbs (5.0 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby They use their large ears to dig burrows. They will dig the whole night through. Y Alpha Sapphire It has ears like shovels. Digging holes strengthens its ears so much that they can sever thick roots effortlessly. 
Diggersby	660	Generation 6	Normal Ground 		Digging Pokemon		 Cheek Pouch Pickup Huge Power  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		93.5 lbs (42.4 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby With their powerful ears, they can heft boulders of a ton or more with ease. They can be a big help at construction sites. Y Alpha Sapphire As powerful as an excavator, its ears can reduce dense bedrock to rubble. When it’s finished digging, it lounges lazily. 
Fletchling	661	Generation 6	Normal Flying 		Tiny Robin Pokemon	 Big Pecks Gale Wings  			1′0″ (0.30m) 		3.7 lbs (1.7 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby These friendly Pokémon send signals to one another with beautiful chirps and tail-feather movements. Y Alpha Sapphire Despite the beauty of its lilting voice, it’s merciless to intruders that enter its territory. Sun This amiable Pokémon is easy to train. But when battle is joined, it shows its ferocious side. Moon When it’s excited, its temperature can double, spiking hormone production in its body. 
Fletchinder	662	Generation 6	Fire Flying 		Ember Pokemon		 Flame Body Gale Wings  			2′4″ (0.71m) 		35.3 lbs (16.0 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby From its beak, it expels embers that set the tall grass on fire. Then it pounces on the bewildered prey that pop out of the grass. Y Alpha Sapphire The hotter the flame sac on its belly, the faster it can fly, but it takes some time to get the fire going. Sun From its beak, it fires embers at its prey. Once it has caught them, it grills them at high heat before feasting upon them. Moon It will not tolerate other Fletchinder entering its territory, which has a radius of several miles. 
Talonflame	663	Generation 6	Fire Flying 		Scorching Pokemon	 Flame Body Gale Wings  			3′11″ (1.19m) 		54 lbs (24.5 kg) 		Second stage
X Omega Ruby In the fever of an exciting battle, it showers embers from the gaps between its feathers and takes to the air. Y Alpha Sapphire When attacking prey, it can reach speeds of up to 310 mph. It finishes its prey off with a colossal kick. Sun Its favorite foods are Wingull and Pikipek. It attacks with a powerful kick and grasps them firmly in its talons. Moon It zooms directly at its prey at flight speeds of close to 310 mph, while fiery embers scatter from gaps in its feathers. 
Scatterbug	664	Generation 6	Bug 			Scatterdust Pokemon	 Compound Eyes Shield Dust Friend Guard  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		5.5 lbs (2.5 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby When under attack from bird Pokémon, it spews a poisonous black powder that causes paralysis on contact. Y Alpha Sapphire The powder that covers its body regulates its temperature, so it can live in any region or climate. 
Spewpa		665	Generation 6	Bug 			Scatterdust Pokemon	 Shed Skin Friend Guard  		1′0″ (0.30m) 		18.5 lbs (8.4 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby It lives hidden within thicket shadows. When predators attack, it quickly bristles the fur covering its body in an effort to threaten them. Y Alpha Sapphire The beaks of bird Pokémon can’t begin to scratch its stalwart body. To defend itself, it spews powder. 
Vivillon	666	Generation 6	Bug Flying 		Scale Pokemon		 Compound Eyes Shield Dust Friend Guard  	3′11″ (1.19m) 		37.5 lbs (17.0 kg) 		Second stage
X Omega Ruby Vivillon with many different patterns are found all over the world. These patterns are affected by the climate of their habitat. Y Alpha Sapphire The patterns on this Pokémon’s wings depend on the climate and topography of its habitat. It scatters colorful scales. 
Litleo		667	Generation 6	Fire Normal 		Lion Cub Pokemon	 Rivalry Unnerve Moxie  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		29.8 lbs (13.5 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby The stronger the opponent it faces, the more heat surges from its mane and the more power flows through its body. Y Alpha Sapphire They set off on their own from their pride and live by themselves to become stronger. These hot-blooded Pokémon are quick to fight. 
Pyroar		668	Generation 6	Fire Normal 		Royal Pokemon		 Rivalry Unnerve Moxie  			4′11″ (1.50m) 		179.7 lbs (81.5 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby The male with the largest mane of fire is the leader of the pride. Y Alpha Sapphire With fiery breath of more than 10,000 degrees Fahrenheit, they viciously threaten any challenger. The females protect the pride’s cubs. 
Floette		670	Generation 6	Fairy 			Single Bloom Pokemon	 Flower Veil Symbiosis  			0′8″ (0.20m) 		2 lbs (0.9 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby It flutters around fields of flowers and cares for flowers that are starting to wilt. It draws out the hidden power of flowers to battle. Y Alpha Sapphire When the flowers of a well-tended flower bed bloom, it appears and celebrates with an elegant dance. 
Florges		671	Generation 6	Fairy 			Garden Pokemon		 Flower Veil Symbiosis  			3′7″ (1.09m) 		22 lbs (10.0 kg) 		Second stage
X Omega Ruby It claims exquisite flower gardens as its territory, and it obtains power from basking in the energy emitted by flowering plants. Y Alpha Sapphire In times long past, governors of castles would invite Florges to create flower gardens to embellish the castle domains. 
Skiddo		672	Generation 6	Grass 			Mount Pokemon		 Sap Sipper Grass Pelt  			2′11″ (0.89m) 		68.3 lbs (31.0 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby Thought to be one of the first Pokémon to live in harmony with humans, it has a placid disposition. Y Alpha Sapphire If it has sunshine and water, it doesn’t need to eat, because it can generate energy from the leaves on its back. 
Gogoat		673	Generation 6	Grass 			Mount Pokemon		 Sap Sipper Grass Pelt  			5′7″ (1.70m) 		200.6 lbs (91.0 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby It can tell how its Trainer is feeling by subtle shifts in the grip on its horns. This empathic sense lets them run as if one being. Y Alpha Sapphire They inhabit mountainous regions. The leader of the herd is decided by a battle of clashing horns. 
Pancham		674	Generation 6	Fighting 		Playful Pokemon		 Iron Fist Mold Breaker Scrappy  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		17.6 lbs (8.0 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby It does its best to be taken seriously by its enemies, but its glare is not sufficiently intimidating. Chewing on a leaf is its trademark. Y Alpha Sapphire It does its level best to glare and pull a scary face, but it can’t help grinning if anyone pats its head. Sun It grows up imitating the behavior of Pangoro, which it looks up to as a leader. Moon There’s no point to the leaf in its mouth, aside from an effort to look cool. It’s mischievous, so it’s not well suited to inexperienced Trainers. 
Pangoro		675	Generation 6	Fighting Dark 		Daunting Pokemon	 Iron Fist Mold Breaker Scrappy  	6′11″ (2.11m) 		299.8 lbs (136.0 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby Although it possesses a violent temperament, it won’t put up with bullying. It uses the leaf in its mouth to sense the movements of its enemies. Y Alpha Sapphire It charges ahead and bashes its opponents like a berserker, uncaring about any hits it might take. Its arms are mighty enough to snap a telephone pole. Sun It boasts superb physical strength. Those who wish to become Pangoro’s Trainer have no choice but to converse with their fists. Moon From the slight twitches of its bamboo leaf, it deduces its opponent’s movements. It’s eager to tussle but kindhearted toward its companions. 
Furfrou		676	Generation 6	Normal 			Poodle Pokemon		 Fur Coat 				3′11″ (1.19m) 		61.7 lbs (28.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Espurr		677	Generation 6	Psychic 		Restraint Pokemon	 Infiltrator Keen Eye Own Tempo  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		7.7 lbs (3.5 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby The organ that emits its intense psychic power is sheltered by its ears to keep power from leaking out. Y Alpha Sapphire It has enough psychic energy to blast everything within 300 feet of itself, but it has no control over its power. 
Meowstic	678	Generation 6	Psychic 		Constraint Pokemon	 Infiltrator Keen Eye Prankster  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		18.7 lbs (8.5 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby When in danger, it raises its ears and releases enough psychic power to grind a 10-ton truck into dust. Y Alpha Sapphire The eyeball patterns on the interior of its ears emit psychic energy. It keeps the patterns tightly covered because that power is too immense. 
Honedge		679	Generation 6	Steel Ghost 		Sword Pokemon		 No Guard 				2′7″ (0.79m) 		4.4 lbs (2.0 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby Apparently this Pokémon is born when a departed spirit inhabits a sword. It attaches itself to people and drinks their life force. Y Alpha Sapphire If anyone dares to grab its hilt, it wraps a blue cloth around that person’s arm and drains that person’s life energy completely. 
Doublade	680	Generation 6	Steel Ghost 		Sword Pokemon		 No Guard 				2′9″ (0.84m) 		9.9 lbs (4.5 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby When Honedge evolves, it divides into two swords, which cooperate via telepathy to coordinate attacks and slash their enemies to ribbons. Y Alpha Sapphire The complex attack patterns of its two swords are unstoppable, even for an opponent greatly accomplished at swordplay. 
Aegislash	681	Generation 6	Steel Ghost 		Royal Sword Pokemon	 Stance Change 				5′7″ (1.70m) 		116.8 lbs (53.0 kg) 		Second stage
X Omega Ruby Generations of kings were attended by these Pokémon, which used their spectral power to manipulate and control people and Pokémon. Y Alpha Sapphire Apparently, it can detect the innate qualities of leadership. According to legend, whoever it recognizes is destined to become king. 
Spritzee	682	Generation 6	Fairy 			Perfume Pokemon		 Healer Aroma Veil  			0′8″ (0.20m) 		1.1 lbs (0.5 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby It emits a scent that enraptures those who smell it. This fragrance changes depending on what it has eaten. Y Alpha Sapphire In the past, rather than using perfume, royal ladies carried a Spritzee that would waft a fragrance they liked. 
Aromatisse	683	Generation 6	Fairy 			Fragrance Pokemon	 Healer Aroma Veil  			2′7″ (0.79m) 		34.2 lbs (15.5 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby It devises various scents, pleasant and unpleasant, and emits scents that its enemies dislike in order to gain an edge in battle. Y Alpha Sapphire Its scent is so overpowering that, unless a Trainer happens to really enjoy the smell, he or she will have a hard time walking alongside it. 
Swirlix		684	Generation 6	Fairy 			Cotton Candy Pokemon	 Sweet Veil Unburden  			1′4″ (0.41m) 		7.7 lbs (3.5 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby To entangle its opponents in battle, it extrudes white threads as sweet and sticky as cotton candy. Y Alpha Sapphire Because it eats nothing but sweets, its fur is as sticky sweet as cotton candy. 
Slurpuff	685	Generation 6	Fairy 			Meringue Pokemon	 Sweet Veil Unburden  			2′7″ (0.79m) 		11 lbs (5.0 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby It can distinguish the faintest of scents. It puts its sensitive sense of smell to use by helping pastry chefs in their work. Y Alpha Sapphire Its sense of smell is 100 million times better than a human’s, so even the faintest scent tells it about everything in the area. It’s like it can see with its nose! 
Inkay		686	Generation 6	Dark Psychic 		Revolving Pokemon	 Contrary Suction Cups Infiltrator  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		7.7 lbs (3.5 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby Opponents who stare at the flashing of the light-emitting spots on its body become dazed and lose their will to fight. Y Alpha Sapphire It flashes the light-emitting spots on its body, which drains its opponent’s will to fight. It takes the opportunity to scuttle away and hide. 
Malamar		687	Generation 6	Dark Psychic 		Overturning Pokemon	 Contrary Suction Cups Infiltrator  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		103.6 lbs (47.0 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby It wields the most compelling hypnotic powers of any Pokémon, and it forces others to do whatever it wants. Y Alpha Sapphire It lures its prey close with hypnotic motions, then wraps its tentacles around it before finishing it off with digestive fluids. 
Binacle		688	Generation 6	Rock Water 		Two-Handed Pokemon	 Sniper Tough Claws Pickpocket  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		68.3 lbs (31.0 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby Two Binacle live together on one rock. When they fight, one of them will move to a different rock. Y Alpha Sapphire They stretch and then contract, yanking their rocks along with them in bold hops. They eat seaweed that washes up on the shoreline. 
Barbaracle	689	Generation 6	Rock Water 		Collective Pokemon	 Sniper Tough Claws Pickpocket  	4′3″ (1.30m) 		211.6 lbs (96.0 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby When they evolve, two Binacle multiply into seven. They fight with the power of seven Binacle. Y Alpha Sapphire Barbaracle’s legs and hands have minds of their own, and they will move independently. But they usually follow the head’s orders. 
Skrelp		690	Generation 6	Poison Water 		Mock Kelp Pokemon	 Poison Point Poison Touch Adaptability  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		16.1 lbs (7.3 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby Camouflaged as rotten kelp, they spray liquid poison on prey that approaches unawares and then finish it off. Y Alpha Sapphire It looks just like rotten kelp. It hides from foes while storing up power for its evolution. 
Dragalge	691	Generation 6	Poison Dragon 		Mock Kelp Pokemon	 Poison Point Poison Touch Adaptability  	5′11″ (1.80m) 		179.7 lbs (81.5 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby Their poison is strong enough to eat through the hull of a tanker, and they spit it indiscriminately at anything that enters their territory. Y Alpha Sapphire Tales are told of ships that wander into seas where Dragalge live, never to return. 
Clauncher	692	Generation 6	Water 			Water Gun Pokemon	 Mega Launcher 				1′8″ (0.51m) 		18.3 lbs (8.3 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby They knock down flying prey by firing compressed water from their massive claws like shooting a pistol. Y Alpha Sapphire Through controlled explosions of internal gas, it can expel water like a pistol shot. At close distances, it can shatter rock. 
Clawitzer	693	Generation 6	Water 			Howitzer Pokemon	 Mega Launcher 				4′3″ (1.30m) 		77.8 lbs (35.3 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby Their enormous claws launch cannonballs of water powerful enough to pierce tanker hulls. Y Alpha Sapphire By expelling water from the nozzle in the back of its claw, it can move at a speed of 60 knots. 
Helioptile	694	Generation 6	Electric Normal 		Generator Pokemon	 Dry Skin Sand Veil Solar Power  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		13.2 lbs (6.0 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby They make their home in deserts. They can generate their energy from basking in the sun, so eating food is not a requirement. Y Alpha Sapphire The frills on either side of its head have cells that generate electricity when exposed to sunlight. 
Heliolisk	695	Generation 6	Electric Normal 		Generator Pokemon	 Dry Skin Sand Veil Solar Power  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		46.3 lbs (21.0 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby They flare their frills and generate energy. A single Heliolisk can generate sufficient electricity to power a skyscraper. Y Alpha Sapphire It stimulates its muscles with electricity, boosting the strength in its legs and enabling it to run 100 yards in five seconds. 
Tyrunt		696	Generation 6	Rock Dragon 		Royal Heir Pokemon	 Strong Jaw Sturdy  			2′7″ (0.79m) 		57.3 lbs (26.0 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby This Pokémon was restored from a fossil. If something happens that it doesn’t like, it throws a tantrum and runs wild. Y Alpha Sapphire Its immense jaws have enough destructive force that it can chew up an automobile. It lived 100 million years ago. 
Tyrantrum	697	Generation 6	Rock Dragon 		Despot Pokemon		 Strong Jaw Rock Head  			8′2″ (2.49m) 		595.2 lbs (270.0 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby Thanks to its gargantuan jaws, which could shred thick metal plates as if they were paper, it was invincible in the ancient world it once inhabited. Y Alpha Sapphire Nothing could stop this Pokémon 100 million years ago, so it behaved like a king. 
Amaura		698	Generation 6	Rock Ice 		Tundra Pokemon		 Refrigerate Snow Warning  		4′3″ (1.30m) 		55.6 lbs (25.2 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby This ancient Pokémon was restored from part of its body that had been frozen in ice for over 100 million years. Y Alpha Sapphire This calm Pokémon lived in a cold land where there were no violent predators like Tyrantrum. 
Aurorus		699	Generation 6	Rock Ice 		Tundra Pokemon		 Refrigerate Snow Warning  		8′10″ (2.69m) 		496 lbs (225.0 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby The diamond-shaped crystals on its body expel air as cold as -240 degrees Fahrenheit, surrounding its enemies and encasing them in ice. Y Alpha Sapphire Using its diamond-shaped crystals, it can instantly create a wall of ice to block an opponent’s attack. 
Sylveon		700	Generation 6	Fairy 			Intertwining Pokemon	 Cute Charm Pixilate  			3′3″ (0.99m) 		51.8 lbs (23.5 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby It sends a soothing aura from its ribbonlike feelers to calm fights. Y Alpha Sapphire It wraps its ribbonlike feelers around the arm of its beloved Trainer and walks with him or her. Sun Its ribbonlike feelers give off an aura that weakens hostility in its prey, causing them to let down their guard. Then it attacks. Moon When this Pokémon sights its prey, it swirls its ribbonlike feelers as a distraction. A moment later, it pounces. 
Hawlucha	701	Generation 6	Fighting Flying 		Wrestling Pokemon	 Limber Unburden Mold Breaker  	2′7″ (0.79m) 		47.4 lbs (21.5 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Dedenne		702	Generation 6	Electric Fairy 		Antenna Pokemon		 Cheek Pouch Pickup Plus  		0′8″ (0.20m) 		4.9 lbs (2.2 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Carbink		703	Generation 6	Rock Fairy 		Jewel Pokemon		 Clear Body Sturdy  			1′0″ (0.30m) 		12.6 lbs (5.7 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Goomy		704	Generation 6	Dragon 			Soft Tissue Pokemon	 Hydration Sap Sipper Gooey  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		6.2 lbs (2.8 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby The weakest Dragon-type Pokémon, it lives in damp, shady places, so its body doesn’t dry out. Y Alpha Sapphire It’s covered in a slimy membrane that makes any punches or kicks slide off it harmlessly. Sun The weakest of all Dragon-type Pokémon, it’s unable to breathe if its skin dries out, so it sticks to shady places. Moon Its source of protection is its slimy, germ-laden mucous membrane. Anyone who touches it needs some thorough hand-washing. 
Sliggoo		705	Generation 6	Dragon 			Soft Tissue Pokemon	 Hydration Sap Sipper Gooey  	2′7″ (0.79m) 		38.6 lbs (17.5 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby It drives away opponents by excreting a sticky liquid that can dissolve anything. Its eyes devolved, so it can’t see anything. Y Alpha Sapphire Its four horns are a high-performance radar system. It uses them to sense sounds and smells, rather than using ears or a nose. Sun It has trouble drawing a line between friends and food. It will calmly try to melt and eat even those it gets along well with. Moon This Pokémon’s mucous can dissolve anything. Toothless, it sprays mucous on its prey. Once they’re nicely dissolved, it slurps them up. 
Goodra		706	Generation 6	Dragon 			Dragon Pokemon		 Hydration Sap Sipper Gooey  	6′7″ (2.01m) 		331.8 lbs (150.5 kg) 		Second stage
X Omega Ruby This very friendly Dragon-type Pokémon will hug its beloved Trainer, leaving that Trainer covered in sticky slime. Y Alpha Sapphire It attacks with retractable horns. It throws a punch that’s the equivalent of the force of a hundred pro boxers. Sun An amazingly friendly Pokémon, but if left to itself, loneliness overcomes it, and it oozes gooey tears. Moon It gets picked on because it’s meek. But then, whoever teased it gets to feel the full force of its horns and a good swatting from its thick tail. 
Klefki		707	Generation 6	Steel Fairy 		Key Ring Pokemon	 Prankster Magician  			0′8″ (0.20m) 		6.6 lbs (3.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Phantump	708	Generation 6	Ghost Grass 		Stump Pokemon		 Frisk Natural Cure Harvest  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		15.4 lbs (7.0 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby These Pokémon are created when spirits possess rotten tree stumps. They prefer to live in abandoned forests. Y Alpha Sapphire According to old tales, these Pokémon are stumps possessed by the spirits of children who died while lost in the forest. Sun These Pokémon are stumps possessed by the spirits of children who died in the forest. Their cries sound like eerie screams. Moon According to legend, medicine to cure any illness can be made by plucking the green leaves on its head, brewing them, and boiling down the liquid. 
Trevenant	709	Generation 6	Ghost Grass 		Elder Tree Pokemon	 Frisk Natural Cure Harvest  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		156.5 lbs (71.0 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby It can control trees at will. It will trap people who harm the forest, so they can never leave. Y Alpha Sapphire Using its roots as a nervous system, it controls the trees in the forest. It’s kind to the Pokémon that reside in its body. Sun This Pokémon is said to devour anyone daring to ravage the forest. To the creatures dwelling in the forest, it offers great kindness. Moon Through its roots, it exerts control over other trees. A deadly curse falls upon anyone cutting down trees in forests where Trevenant dwell. 
Pumpkaboo	710	Generation 6	Ghost Grass 		Pumpkin Pokemon		 Frisk Pickup Insomnia  			1′4″ (0.41m) 		11 lbs (5.0 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby The pumpkin body is inhabited by a spirit trapped in this world. As the sun sets, it becomes restless and active. Y Alpha Sapphire It is said to carry wandering spirits to the place where they belong so they can move on. 
Gourgeist	711	Generation 6	Ghost Grass 		Pumpkin Pokemon		 Frisk Pickup Insomnia  			2′11″ (0.89m) 		27.6 lbs (12.5 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby Singing in eerie voices, they wander town streets on the night of the new moon. Anyone who hears their song is cursed. Y Alpha Sapphire It enwraps its prey in its hairlike arms. It sings joyfully as it observes the suffering of its prey. 
Bergmite	712	Generation 6	Ice 			Ice Chunk Pokemon	 Ice Body Own Tempo Sturdy  		3′3″ (0.99m) 		219.4 lbs (99.5 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby It blocks opponents’ attacks with the ice that shields its body. It uses cold air to repair any cracks with new ice. Y Alpha Sapphire Using air of -150 degrees Fahrenheit, they freeze opponents solid. They live in herds above the snow line on mountains. 
Avalugg		713	Generation 6	Ice 			Iceberg Pokemon		 Ice Body Own Tempo Sturdy  		6′7″ (2.01m) 		1113.3 lbs (505.0 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby Its ice-covered body is as hard as steel. Its cumbersome frame crushes anything that stands in its way. Y Alpha Sapphire The way several Bergmite huddle on its back makes it look like an aircraft carrier made of ice. 
Noibat		714	Generation 6	Flying Dragon 		Sound Wave Pokemon	 Frisk Infiltrator Telepathy  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		17.6 lbs (8.0 kg) 		Basic form
X Omega Ruby They live in pitch-black caves. Their enormous ears can emit ultrasonic waves of 200,000 hertz. Y Alpha Sapphire Even a robust wrestler will become dizzy and unable to stand when exposed to its 200,000-hertz ultrasonic waves. 
Noivern		715	Generation 6	Flying Dragon 		Sound Wave Pokemon	 Frisk Infiltrator Telepathy  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		187.4 lbs (85.0 kg) 		First stage
X Omega Ruby They fly around on moonless nights and attack careless prey. Nothing can beat them in a battle in the dark. Y Alpha Sapphire The ultrasonic waves it emits from its ears can reduce a large boulder to pebbles. It swoops out of the dark to attack. 
Xerneas		716	Generation 6	Fairy 			Life Pokemon		 Fairy Aura 				9′10″ (3.00m) 		474 lbs (215.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Yveltal		717	Generation 6	Dark Flying 		Destruction Pokemon	 Dark Aura 				19′0″ (5.79m) 		447.5 lbs (203.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Zygarde		718	Generation 6	Dragon Ground 		Order Pokemon		 Aura Break Power Construct 		16′5″ (5.00m) 		672.4 lbs (305.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Diancie		719	Generation 6	Rock Fairy 		Jewel Pokemon		 Clear Body 				2′4″ (0.71m) 		19.4 lbs (8.8 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Hoopa		720	Generation 6	Psychic Ghost 		Mischief Pokemon	 Magician 				1′8″ (0.51m) 		19.8 lbs (9.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Volcanion	721	Generation 6	Fire Water 		Steam Pokemon		 Water Absorb 				5′7″ (1.70m) 		429.9 lbs (195.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Rowlet		722	Generation 7	Grass Flying 		Grass Quill Pokemon	 Overgrow Long Reach  			1′0″ (0.30m) 		3.3 lbs (1.5 kg) 		Basic form
Sun This wary Pokémon uses photosynthesis to store up energy during the day, while becoming active at night. Moon Silently it glides, drawing near its targets. Before they even notice it, it begins to pelt them with vicious kicks. 
Dartrix		723	Generation 7	Grass Flying 		Blade Quill Pokemon	 Overgrow Long Reach  			2′4″ (0.71m) 		35.3 lbs (16.0 kg) 		First stage
Sun A bit of a dandy, it spends its free time preening its wings. Its preoccupation with any dirt on its plumage can leave it unable to battle. Moon It throws sharp feathers called blade quills at enemies or prey. It seldom misses. 
Decidueye	724	Generation 7	Grass Ghost 		Arrow Quill Pokemon	 Overgrow Long Reach  			5′3″ (1.60m) 		80.7 lbs (36.6 kg) 		Second stage
Sun It fires arrow quills from its wings with such precision, they can pierce a pebble at distances over a hundred yards. Moon Although basically cool and cautious, when it’s caught by surprise, it’s seized by panic. 
Litten		725	Generation 7	Fire 			Fire Cat Pokemon	 Blaze Intimidate  			1′4″ (0.41m) 		9.5 lbs (4.3 kg) 		Basic form
Sun While grooming itself, it builds up fur inside its stomach. It sets the fur alight and spews fiery attacks, which change based on how it coughs. Moon It doesn’t allow its emotions to be easily seen. Earning its trust takes time. It prefers solitude. 
Torracat	726	Generation 7	Fire 			Fire Cat Pokemon	 Blaze Intimidate  			2′4″ (0.71m) 		55.1 lbs (25.0 kg) 		First stage
Sun At its throat, it bears a bell of fire. The bell rings brightly whenever this Pokémon spits fire. Moon It boasts powerful front legs. With a single punch, it can bend an iron bar right over. 
Incineroar	727	Generation 7	Fire Dark 		Heel Pokemon		 Blaze Intimidate  			5′11″ (1.80m) 		183 lbs (83.0 kg) 		Second stage
Sun This Pokémon has a violent, selfish disposition. If it’s not in the mood to listen, it will ignore its Trainer’s orders with complete nonchalance. Moon After hurling ferocious punches and flinging furious kicks, it finishes opponents off by spewing fire from around its navel. 
Popplio		728	Generation 7	Water 			Sea Lion Pokemon	 Torrent Liquid Voice  			1′4″ (0.41m) 		16.5 lbs (7.5 kg) 		Basic form
Sun This Pokémon snorts body fluids from its nose, blowing balloons to smash into its foes. It’s famous for being a hard worker. Moon This Pokémon can control water bubbles. It practices diligently so it can learn to make big bubbles. 
Brionne		729	Generation 7	Water 			Pop Star Pokemon	 Torrent Liquid Voice  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		38.6 lbs (17.5 kg) 		First stage
Sun A skillful dancer, it creates a sequence of water balloons as it dances, and briskly bombards its enemies. Moon It cares deeply for its companions. When its Trainer is feeling down, it performs a cheery dance to try and help. 
Primarina	730	Generation 7	Water Fairy 		Soloist Pokemon		 Torrent Liquid Voice  			5′11″ (1.80m) 		97 lbs (44.0 kg) 		Second stage
Sun It controls its water balloons with song. The melody is learned from others of its kind and is passed down from one generation to the next. Moon Its singing voice is its chief weapon in battle. This Pokémon’s Trainer must prioritize the daily maintenance of its throat at all costs. 
Pikipek		731	Generation 7	Normal Flying 		Woodpecker Pokemon	 Keen Eye Skill Link Pickup  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		2.6 lbs (1.2 kg) 		Basic form
Sun It can peck at a rate of 16 times a second to drill holes in trees. It uses the holes for food storage and for nesting. Moon This Pokémon feeds on berries, whose leftover seeds become the ammunition for the attacks it fires off from its mouth. 
Trumbeak	732	Generation 7	Normal Flying 		Bugle Beak Pokemon	 Keen Eye Skill Link Pickup  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		32.6 lbs (14.8 kg) 		First stage
Sun It eats berries and stores their seeds in its beak. When it encounters enemies or prey, it fires off all the seeds in a burst. Moon By bending its beak, it can produce a variety of calls and brand itself a noisy nuisance for its neighbors. 
Toucannon	733	Generation 7	Normal Flying 		Cannon Pokemon		 Keen Eye Skill Link Sheer Force  	3′7″ (1.09m) 		57.3 lbs (26.0 kg) 		Second stage
Sun When it battles, its beak heats up. The temperature can easily exceed 212 degrees Fahrenheit, causing severe burns when it hits. Moon Within its beak, its internal gas ignites, explosively launching seeds with enough power to pulverize boulders. 
Yungoos		734	Generation 7	Normal 			Loitering Pokemon	 Stakeout Strong Jaw Adaptability  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		13.2 lbs (6.0 kg) 		Basic form
Sun With its sharp fangs, it will bite anything. It did not originally live in Alola but was imported from another region. Moon It wanders around in a never-ending search for food. At dusk, it collapses from exhaustion and falls asleep on the spot. 
Gumshoos	735	Generation 7	Normal 			Stakeout Pokemon	 Stakeout Strong Jaw Adaptability  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		31.3 lbs (14.2 kg) 		First stage
Sun When it finds a trace of its prey, it patiently stakes out the location...but it’s always snoozing by nightfall. Moon It adores having Rattata and Raticate for dinner, but as it’s diurnal, it never encounters them. This Pokémon boasts incredible patience. 
Grubbin		736	Generation 7	Bug 			Larva Pokemon		 Swarm 					1′4″ (0.41m) 		9.7 lbs (4.4 kg) 		Basic form
Sun Its strong jaw enables it to scrape trees and slurp out the sap. It normally lives underground. Moon They often gather near places frequented by electric Pokémon in order to avoid being attacked by bird Pokémon. 
Charjabug	737	Generation 7	Bug Electric 		Battery Pokemon		 Battery 				1′8″ (0.51m) 		23.1 lbs (10.5 kg) 		First stage
Sun Its body is capable of storing electricity. On camping trips, people are grateful to have one around. Moon From the food it digests, it generates electricity, and it stores this energy in its electric sac. 
Vikavolt	738	Generation 7	Bug Electric 		Stag Beetle Pokemon	 Levitate 				4′11″ (1.50m) 		99.2 lbs (45.0 kg) 		Second stage
Sun It zips around, on sharp lookout for an opening. It concentrates electrical energy within its large jaws and uses it to zap its enemies. Moon It produces electricity via an electrical organ in its abdomen. It overwhelms bird Pokémon with shocking beams of electrical energy. 
Crabrawler	739	Generation 7	Fighting 		Boxing Pokemon		 Hyper Cutter Iron Fist Anger Point  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		15.4 lbs (7.0 kg) 		Basic form
Sun While guarding its weak points with its pincers, it looks for an opening and unleashes punches. When it loses, it foams at the mouth and faints. Moon It punches so much, its pincers often come off from overuse, but they grow back quickly. What little meat they contain is rich and delicious. 
Crabominable	740	Generation 7	Fighting Ice 		Woolly Crab Pokemon	 Hyper Cutter Iron Fist Anger Point  	5′7″ (1.70m) 		396.8 lbs (180.0 kg) 		First stage
Sun It aimed for the top but got lost and ended up on a snowy mountain. Being forced to endure the cold, this Pokémon evolved and grew fur. Moon It just throws punches indiscriminately. In times of desperation, it can lop off its own pincers and fire them like rockets. 
Oricorio	741	Generation 7	Fire Flying 		Dancing Pokemon		 Dancer 					2′0″ (0.61m) 		7.5 lbs (3.4 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Cutiefly	742	Generation 7	Bug Fairy 		Bee Fly Pokemon		 Honey Gather Shield Dust Sweet Veil  	0′4″ (0.10m) 		0.4 lbs (0.2 kg) 		Basic form
Sun It feeds on the nectar and pollen of flowers. Because it’s able to sense auras, it can identify which flowers are about to bloom. Moon Myriads of Cutiefly flutter above the heads of people who have auras resembling those of flowers. 
Ribombee	743	Generation 7	Bug Fairy 		Bee Fly Pokemon		 Honey Gather Shield Dust Sweet Veil  	0′8″ (0.20m) 		1.1 lbs (0.5 kg) 		First stage
Sun It rolls up pollen into puffs. It makes many different varieties, some used as food and others used in battle. Moon Some of Ribombee’s pollen puffs are highly nutritious. They are sometimes sold as supplements. 
Rockruff	744	Generation 7	Rock 			Puppy Pokemon		 Keen Eye Vital Spirit Steadfast  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		20.3 lbs (9.2 kg) 		Basic form
Sun It’s considered to be a good Pokémon for beginners because of its friendliness, but its disposition grows rougher as it grows up. Moon This Pokémon has lived with people since times long ago. It can sense when its Trainer is in the dumps and will stick close by its Trainer’s side. 
Lycanroc	745	Generation 7	Rock 			Wolf Pokemon		 Keen Eye Sand Rush Steadfast  	2′7″ (0.79m) 		55.2 lbs (25.0 kg) 		Basic form
Sun Its quick movements confuse its enemies. Well equipped with claws and fangs, it also uses the sharp rocks in its mane as weapons. Moon When properly raised from a young age, it will become a trustworthy partner that will absolutely never betray its Trainer. 
Wishiwashi	746	Generation 7	Water 			Small Fry Pokemon	 Schooling 				0′8″ (0.20m) 		0.7 lbs (0.3 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Mareanie	747	Generation 7	Poison Water 		Brutal Star Pokemon	 Limber Merciless Regenerator  	1′4″ (0.41m) 		17.6 lbs (8.0 kg) 		Basic form
Sun It plunges the poison spike on its head into its prey. When the prey has weakened, Mareanie deals the finishing blow with its 10 tentacles. Moon It’s found crawling on beaches and seafloors. The coral that grows on Corsola’s head is as good as a five-star banquet to this Pokémon. 
Toxapex		748	Generation 7	Poison Water 		Brutal Star Pokemon	 Limber Merciless Regenerator  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		32 lbs (14.5 kg) 		First stage
Sun Toxapex crawls along the ocean floor on its 12 legs. It leaves a trail of Corsola bits scattered in its wake. Moon Those attacked by Toxapex’s poison will suffer intense pain for three days and three nights. Post-recovery, there will be some aftereffects. 
Mudbray		749	Generation 7	Ground 			Donkey Pokemon		 Own Tempo Stamina Inner Focus  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		242.5 lbs (110.0 kg) 		Basic form
Sun The mud stuck to Mudbray’s hooves enhances its grip and its powerful running gait. Moon It has a stubborn, individualistic disposition. Eating dirt, making mud, and playing in the mire all form part of its daily routine. 
Mudsdale	750	Generation 7	Ground 			Draft Horse Pokemon	 Own Tempo Stamina Inner Focus  	8′2″ (2.49m) 		2028.3 lbs (920.0 kg) 		First stage
Sun It spits a mud that provides resistance to both wind and rain, so the walls of old houses were often coated with it. Moon Its heavy, mud-covered kicks are its best means of attack, and it can reduce large trucks to scrap without breaking a sweat. 
Dewpider	751	Generation 7	Water Bug 		Water Bubble Pokemon	 Water Bubble Water Absorb  		1′0″ (0.30m) 		8.8 lbs (4.0 kg) 		Basic form
Sun It crawls onto the land in search of food. Its water bubble allows it to breathe and protects its soft head. Moon When it comes across enemies or potential prey, this Pokémon smashes its water-bubble-covered head into them. 
Araquanid	752	Generation 7	Water Bug 		Water Bubble Pokemon	 Water Bubble Water Absorb  		5′11″ (1.80m) 		180.8 lbs (82.0 kg) 		First stage
Sun It delivers headbutts with the water bubble on its head. Small Pokémon get sucked into the bubble, where they drown. Moon Despite what its appearance suggests, it cares for others. If it finds vulnerable, weak Pokémon, it protectively brings them into its water bubble. 
Fomantis	753	Generation 7	Grass 			Sickle Grass Pokemon	 Leaf Guard Contrary  			1′0″ (0.30m) 		3.3 lbs (1.5 kg) 		Basic form
Sun During the day, it sleeps and soaks up light. When night falls, it walks around looking for a safer place to sleep. Moon They give off a sweet and refreshing scent. Cutiefly often gather near the tall grass where Fomantis are hiding. 
Lurantis	754	Generation 7	Grass 			Bloom Sickle Pokemon	 Leaf Guard Contrary  			2′11″ (0.89m) 		40.8 lbs (18.5 kg) 		First stage
Sun It requires a lot of effort to maintain Lurantis’s vivid coloring, but some collectors enjoy this work and treat it as their hobby. Moon It fires beams from its sickle-shaped petals. These beams are powerful enough to cleave through thick metal plates. 
Morelull	755	Generation 7	Grass Fairy 		Illuminating Pokemon	 Effect Spore Illuminate Rain Dish  	0′8″ (0.20m) 		3.3 lbs (1.5 kg) 		Basic form
Sun It scatters spores that flicker and glow. Anyone seeing these lights falls into a deep slumber. Moon As it drowses the day away, it nourishes itself by sucking from tree roots. It wakens at the fall of night, wandering off in search of a new tree. 
Shiinotic	756	Generation 7	Grass Fairy 		Illuminating Pokemon	 Effect Spore Illuminate Rain Dish  	3′3″ (0.99m) 		25.4 lbs (11.5 kg) 		First stage
Sun Forests where Shiinotic live are treacherous to enter at night. People confused by its strange lights can never find their way home again. Moon It emits flickering spores that cause drowsiness. When its prey succumb to sleep, this Pokémon feeds on them by sucking in their energy. 
Salandit	757	Generation 7	Poison Fire 		Toxic Lizard Pokemon	 Corrosion Oblivious  			2′0″ (0.61m) 		10.6 lbs (4.8 kg) 		Basic form
Sun It burns its bodily fluids to create a poisonous gas. When its enemies become disoriented from inhaling the gas, it attacks them. Moon Volcanoes or dry, craggy places are its home. It emanates a sweet-smelling poisonous gas that attracts bug Pokémon, then attacks them. 
Salazzle	758	Generation 7	Poison Fire 		Toxic Lizard Pokemon	 Corrosion Oblivious  			3′11″ (1.19m) 		48.9 lbs (22.2 kg) 		First stage
Sun For some reason, only females have been found. It creates a reverse harem of male Salandit that it lives with. Moon Filled with pheromones, its poisonous gas can be diluted to use in the production of luscious perfumes. 
Stufful		759	Generation 7	Normal Fighting 		Flailing Pokemon	 Fluffy Klutz Cute Charm  		1′8″ (0.51m) 		15 lbs (6.8 kg) 		Basic form
Sun Despite its adorable appearance, when it gets angry and flails about, its arms and legs could knock a pro wrestler sprawling. Moon A touch from anyone except a known friend sends it into a surging frenzy. It’s an incredibly dangerous Pokémon. 
Bewear		760	Generation 7	Normal Fighting 		Strong Arm Pokemon	 Fluffy Klutz Unnerve  			6′11″ (2.11m) 		297.6 lbs (135.0 kg) 		First stage
Sun This immensely dangerous Pokémon possesses overwhelming physical strength. Its habitat is generally off-limits. Moon This Pokémon has the habit of hugging its companions. Many Trainers have left this world after their spines were squashed by its hug. 
Bounsweet	761	Generation 7	Grass 			Fruit Pokemon		 Leaf Guard Oblivious Sweet Veil  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		7.1 lbs (3.2 kg) 		Basic form
Sun A delectable aroma pours from its body. They are often swallowed whole by Toucannon lured by that wafting deliciousness. Moon Although it’s too sugary for human consumption, Bounsweet’s sweat can be watered down into a juice with just the right amount of sweetness. 
Steenee		762	Generation 7	Grass 			Fruit Pokemon		 Leaf Guard Oblivious Sweet Veil  	2′4″ (0.71m) 		18.1 lbs (8.2 kg) 		First stage
Sun The sepals on its head developed to protect its body. These are quite hard, so even if pecked by bird Pokémon, this Pokémon is totally fine. Moon This Pokémon is always bouncing around energetically. Other Pokémon are attracted by its lively appearance and pleasant aroma. 
Tsareena	763	Generation 7	Grass 			Fruit Pokemon		 Leaf Guard Queenly Majesty Sweet Veil  	3′9″ (1.14m) 		47.2 lbs (21.4 kg) 		Second stage
Sun Its long, striking legs aren’t just for show but to be used to kick with skill. In victory, it shows off by kicking the defeated, laughing boisterously. Moon A Pokémon known for the beauty of its well-shaped legs, it sometimes appears as a mascot in advertisements for beauty salons. 
Comfey		764	Generation 7	Fairy 			Posy Picker Pokemon	 Flower Veil Triage Natural Cure  	0′4″ (0.10m) 		0.7 lbs (0.3 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Oranguru	765	Generation 7	Normal Psychic 		Sage Pokemon		 Inner Focus Telepathy Symbiosis  	4′11″ (1.50m) 		167.6 lbs (76.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Passimian	766	Generation 7	Fighting 		Teamwork Pokemon	 Receiver Defiant  			6′7″ (2.01m) 		182.5 lbs (82.8 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Wimpod		767	Generation 7	Bug Water 		Turn Tail Pokemon	 Wimp Out 				1′8″ (0.51m) 		26.5 lbs (12.0 kg) 		Basic form
Sun This Pokémon is a coward. As it desperately dashes off, the flailing of its many legs leaves a sparkling clean path in its wake. Moon Its habitat varies from beaches to seabeds. A natural scavenger, it will gleefully chow down on anything edible, no matter how rotten. 
Golisopod	768	Generation 7	Bug Water 		Hard Scale Pokemon	 Emergency Exit 				6′7″ (2.01m) 		238.1 lbs (108.0 kg) 		First stage
Sun With a flashing slash of its giant sharp claws, it cleaves seawater—or even air—right in two. Moon It battles skillfully with its six arms, but spends most of its time peacefully meditating in caves deep beneath the sea. 
Sandygast	769	Generation 7	Ghost Ground 		Sand Heap Pokemon	 Water Compaction Sand Veil  	1′8″ (0.51m) 		154.3 lbs (70.0 kg) 		Basic form
Sun Born from a sand mound playfully built by a child, this Pokémon embodies the grudges of the departed. Moon It takes control of anyone who puts a hand in its mouth. And so it adds to the accumulation of its sand-mound body. 
Palossand	770	Generation 7	Ghost Ground 		Sand Castle Pokemon	 Water Compaction Sand Veil  	4′3″ (1.30m) 		551.2 lbs (250.0 kg) 		First stage
Sun Possessed people controlled by this Pokémon transformed its sand mound into a castle. As it evolved, its power to curse grew ever stronger. Moon Buried beneath the castle are masses of dried-up bones from those whose vitality it has drained. 
Pyukumuku	771	Generation 7	Water 			Sea Cucumber Pokemon	 Innards Out Unaware  			1′0″ (0.30m) 		2.6 lbs (1.2 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Silvally	773	Generation 7	Normal 			Synthetic Pokemon	 RKS System 				7′7″ (2.31m) 		221.6 lbs (100.5 kg) 		First stage
Sun Its trust in its partner is what awakens it. This Pokémon is capable of changing its type, a flexibility that is well displayed in battle. Moon Although its name was Type: Null at first, the boy who evolved it into this form gave it the name by which it is now known. 
Minior		774	Generation 7	Rock Flying 		Meteor Pokemon		 Shields Down 				1′0″ (0.30m) 		88.2 lbs (40.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Komala		775	Generation 7	Normal 			Drowsing Pokemon	 Comatose 				1′4″ (0.41m) 		43.9 lbs (19.9 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Turtonator	776	Generation 7	Fire Dragon 		Blast Turtle Pokemon	 Shell Armor 				6′7″ (2.01m) 		467.4 lbs (212.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Togedemaru	777	Generation 7	Electric Steel 		Roly-Poly Pokemon	 Iron Barbs Lightning Rod Sturdy  	1′0″ (0.30m) 		7.3 lbs (3.3 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Mimikyu		778	Generation 7	Ghost Fairy 		Disguise Pokemon	 Disguise 				0′8″ (0.20m) 		1.5 lbs (0.7 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Bruxish		779	Generation 7	Water Psychic 		Gnash Teeth Pokemon	 Dazzling Strong Jaw Wonder Skin  	2′11″ (0.89m) 		41.9 lbs (19.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Drampa		780	Generation 7	Normal Dragon 		Placid Pokemon		 Berserk Sap Sipper Cloud Nine  	9′10″ (3.00m) 		407.9 lbs (185.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Dhelmise	781	Generation 7	Ghost Grass 		Sea Creeper Pokemon	 Steelworker 				12′10″ (3.91m) 		463 lbs (210.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Jangmo-o	782	Generation 7	Dragon 			Scaly Pokemon		 Bulletproof Soundproof Overcoat  	2′0″ (0.61m) 		65.5 lbs (29.7 kg) 		Basic form
Sun It expresses its feelings by smacking its scales. Metallic sounds echo through the tall mountains where Jangmo-o lives. Moon They live in mountains where no trace of humans can be detected. Jangmo-o grow little by little as they battle one another. 
Hakamo-o	783	Generation 7	Dragon Fighting 		Scaly Pokemon		 Bulletproof Soundproof Overcoat  	3′9″ (1.14m) 		103.6 lbs (47.0 kg) 		First stage
Sun It leaps at its prey with a courageous shout. Its scaly punches tear its opponents to shreds. Moon It sheds and regrows its scales on a continuous basis. The scales become harder and sharper each time they’re regrown. 
Kommo-o		784	Generation 7	Dragon Fighting 		Scaly Pokemon		 Bulletproof Soundproof Overcoat  	5′3″ (1.60m) 		172.4 lbs (78.2 kg) 		Second stage
Sun When it spots enemies, it threatens them by jingling the scales on its tail. Weak opponents will crack and flee in panic. Moon Its rigid scales function as offense and defense. In the past, its scales were processed and used to make weapons and other commodities. 
Tapu		785	Generation 7	Electric Fairy 		Land Spirit Pokemon	 Electric Surge Telepathy  		5′11″ (1.80m) 		45.2 lbs (20.5 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Cosmog		789	Generation 7	Psychic 		Nebula Pokemon		 Unaware 				0′8″ (0.20m) 		0.2 lbs (0.1 kg) 		Basic form
Sun Its body is gaseous and frail. It slowly grows as it collects dust from the atmosphere. Moon In ages past, it was called the child of the stars. It’s said to be a Pokémon from another world, but no specific details are known. 
Cosmoem		790	Generation 7	Psychic 		Protostar Pokemon	 Sturdy 					0′4″ (0.10m) 		2204.4 lbs (999.9 kg) 		First stage
Sun Motionless as if dead, its body is faintly warm to the touch. In the distant past, it was called the cocoon of the stars. Moon There’s something accumulating around the black core within its hard shell. People think this Pokémon may come from another world. 
Solgaleo	791	Generation 7	Psychic Steel 		Sunne Pokemon		 Full Metal Body 			11′2″ (3.40m) 		507.1 lbs (230.0 kg) 		First stage
Sun It is said to live in another world. The intense light it radiates from the surface of its body can make the darkest of nights light up like midday. Moon This Pokémon is said to be a male evolution of Cosmog. At the activation of its third eye, it departs for another world. 
Lunala		792	Generation 7	Psychic Ghost 		Moone Pokemon		 Shadow Shield 				13′1″ (3.99m) 		264.6 lbs (120.0 kg) 		First stage
Sun It is said to be a female evolution of Cosmog. When its third eye activates, away it flies to another world. Moon Said to live in another world, this Pokémon devours light, drawing the moonless dark veil of night over the brightness of day. 
Nihilego	793	Generation 7	Rock Poison 		Parasite Pokemon	 Beast Boost 				3′11″ (1.19m) 		122.4 lbs (55.5 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Buzzwole	794	Generation 7	Bug Fighting 		Swollen Pokemon		 Beast Boost 				7′10″ (2.39m) 		735.5 lbs (333.6 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Pheromosa	795	Generation 7	Bug Fighting 		Lissome Pokemon		 Beast Boost 				5′11″ (1.80m) 		55.1 lbs (25.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Xurkitree	796	Generation 7	Electric 		Glowing Pokemon		 Beast Boost 				12′6″ (3.81m) 		220.5 lbs (100.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Celesteela	797	Generation 7	Steel Flying 		Launch Pokemon		 Beast Boost 				30′2″ (9.19m) 		2204.4 lbs (999.9 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Kartana		798	Generation 7	Grass Steel 		Drawn Sword Pokemon	 Beast Boost 				1′0″ (0.30m) 		0.2 lbs (0.1 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Guzzlord	799	Generation 7	Dark Dragon 		Junkivore Pokemon	 Beast Boost 				18′1″ (5.51m) 		1957.7 lbs (888.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Necrozma	800	Generation 7	Psychic 		Prism Pokemon		 Prism Armor 				7′10″ (2.39m) 		507.1 lbs (230.0 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Magearna	801	Generation 7	Steel Fairy 		Artificial Pokemon	 Soul-Heart 				3′3″ (0.99m) 		177.5 lbs (80.5 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
Marshadow	802	Generation 7	Fighting Ghost 		Gloomdweller Pokemon	 Technician 				2′4″ (0.71m) 		48.9 lbs (22.2 kg) 		Basic form
UNKNOWN DATA
